Do food processing industries contribute to the eutrophication of aquatic systems?	Eutrophication is the enrichment of water bodies with plant nutrients and precursors, typically nitrogen, phosphorus, and organic matter. There exists a "natural" and slow eutrophication, which, over geological times, turns a lake into a marsh and then dries it entirely. Today, however, eutrophication is mostly referred to the human process that "results in the stimulation of an array of symptomatic changes, among which increased production of algae and macrophytes, deterioration of water quality and other symptomatic changes are found to be undesirable and interfere with water uses" as defined by the OECD in 1982. This undesirable process is observed mostly in enclosed water bodies, such as lakes, but also in some rivers, some estuaries, and some coastal zones. In most freshwater systems, phosphorus has been identified as the "limiting nutrient" to phytoplankton development. This nutrient is brought to aquatic environments from rock weathering, soil leaching, and rain (natural sources), but also and mostly from agricultural runoff and domestic sewage. Some food processing industries (meat, vegetables, cheese processing) also contribute significantly to the phosphorus budget, even though the pollution may be due to floor and utensil cleaning rather than to direct food wastes.
Detecting the Zambezi River plume using observed optical properties.	In April 1998 a research cruise was carried out in the Mozambique Channel taking detailed optical, water quality and salinity measurements; the Zambezi plume waters were apparent through strong colour fronts with green waters in the plume and clear blue waters offshore. A good (r2 = 0.76) negative empirical relationship was found between the salinity (S) and yellow substance, represented by the absorption of filtered samples at 440 nm (g440). An empirical relationship was found between the salinity and a reflectance ratio: S(1/2 Zsd) = 37.45-7.07(R555/R490). An optical model in which light absorption is dominated by yellow substance and light scattering by inorganic particles confirms this empirical relationship. This has been applied to a SeaWIFS image to map salinity on the Sofala Bank, demonstrating the potential to remotely determine the distribution of the Zambezi River plume. It is thought that any significant level of chlorophyll would reduce the effectiveness of the above algorithm.
Water-quality changes in Latvia and Riga 1980-2000: possibilities and problems.	Long-term changes in the environmental quality of water in Latvia (chemical composition of inland waters, wastewater treatment, and drinking-water treatment practices and quality) as a response to socioeconomic changes have been studied. Water composition, the major factors influencing water chemistry, and human impacts (wastewater loading) were studied to determine changes that occurred after recent reductions in pollution emissions, particularly nutrient loading, to surface waters. After 1991, (Latvia regained independence in 1991) inland water quality has begun to improve mainly as a result of decreases in nutrient loads from point and nonpoint sources and substantial efforts in the area of environmental protection. The situation differs, however, for drinking-water treatment, where practices have also changed during the whole period from 1980 till 2000. More stringent drinking-water-quality standards and novel insights regarding changes in water quality in the distribution network, necessitate further improvements in public water supply, and place this particular water issue among Latvia's main priorities.
An artificial neural network model for lake color inversion using TM imagery]	The technology of artificial neural network was used for inversing water quality parameters from TM imagery data in the paper in order to study water quality and eutrophic status of lake. On the basis of satellite synchronous monitoring experiment, a BP neural network model was constructed, in which concentrations of SS, CODMn, DO, T-N, T-P and chlo-a were inversed from Landsat TM data and the accuracy of which was good, the relative error of which could be controlled below 25%. Moreover, the reasons of simulating error, ways of improving model and applications of the model were also analyzed in detail. The results of this research told that based on a small-scale of satellite synchronous experiment, the model could be applied successfully in investigation, analysis and estimation of lake water quality.
Using environmental stressor information to predict the ecological status of Maryland non-tidal streams as measured by biological indicators.	In Maryland. U.S., an interim framework has recently been developed for using biologically based thresholds, or 'biocriteria', to assess the health of nontidal streams statewide at watershed scales. The evaluation of impairment is based on indices of biological integrity from the Maryland Biological Stream Survey (MBSS). We applied logistic regression to quantify how the biotic integrity of streams at a local scale is affected by cumulative effects resulting from catchment land uses, point sources, and nearby transmission line rights-of-way. Indicators for land use were developed from the remote sensing National Land Cover Data and applied at different scales. We determined that the risk of local impairment in nontidal streams rapidly increases with increased urban land use in the catchment area. The average likelihood of failing biocriteria doubled with every 10% points increment in urban land, thus an increase in urban land use from 0 to 20% quadruples the risk of impairment. For the basins evaluated in this study, catchments with more than 40-50% urban land use had greater than 80% probability of failing biocriteria, on average. Inclusion of rights-of-way and point sources in the model did not significantly improve the fit for this data set, most likely because of their low numbers. The overall results indicate that our predictive modeling approach can help pinpoint stream ecosystems experiencing or vulnerable to degradation.
Mucilage in the Adriatic Sea: role of possible causal agents and environmental factors]	The massive accumulation of gelatinous material at and below the seawater surface occurred in Northern Adriatic, at a frequency and with such an extension to cause serious environmental and economic damages. The present review describes the updated knowledge and considers the main hypotheses on mucilage formation. They focus, in turn, on organisms that produce mucilage, on the particular hydrodynamic of the North Adriatic basin, on the role of nutrients, but the trigger mechanism has not yet been really understood. Finally, the theoretical framework recently proposed by Azam et al. is presented. In the organic matter continuum view, organisms of the microbial loop just represent a part of the whole picture from which specific mechanisms of interactions are examined and few important pathways are outlined for future research.
Evaluating factors influencing groundwater vulnerability to nitrate pollution: developing the potential of GIS.	The 1991 EU Nitrate Directive was designed to reduce water pollution from agriculturally derived nitrates. England and Wales implemented this Directive by controlling agricultural activities within their most vulnerable areas termed Nitrate Vulnerable Zones. These were designated by identifying drinking water catchments (surface and groundwater), at risk from nitrate pollution. However, this method contravened the Nitrate Directive because it only protected drinking water and not all waters. In this paper, a GIS was used to identify all areas of groundwater vulnerable to nitrate pollution. This was achieved by constructing a model containing data on four characteristics: the quality of the water leaving the root zone of a piece of land; soil information; presence of low permeability superficial (drift) material; and aquifer properties. These were combined in a GIS and the various combinations converted into a measure of vulnerability using expert knowledge. Several model variants were produced using different estimates of the quality of the water leaving the root zone and contrasting methods of weighting the input data. When the final models were assessed all produced similar spatial patterns and, when verified by comparison with trend data derived from monitored nitrate concentrations, all the models were statistically significant predictors of groundwater nitrate concentrations. The best predictive model contained a model of nitrate leaching but no land use information, implying that changes in land use will not affect designations based upon this model. The relationship between nitrate levels and borehole intake depths was investigated since there was concern that the observed contrasts in nitrate levels between vulnerability categories might be reflecting differences in borehole intake depths and not actual vulnerability. However, this was not found to be statistically important. Our preferred model provides the basis for developing a new set of groundwater Nitrate Vulnerable Zones that should help England and Wales to comply with the EU Nitrate Directive.
Distribution of heterotrophic bacteria in Shira lake]	The study of the horizontal and vertical distribution of heterotrophic bacteria in brackish Lake Shira in summer periods showed that mesophilic bacteria dominated in all areas of the lake, whereas psychrotolerant bacteria dominated in the metalimnion and hypolimnion of its central part. Nonhalophilic bacteria were mostly mesophilic and dominated in coastal waters. Most psychrotolerant bacteria were able to grow in the presence of 5-10% NaCl. Heterotrophic bacteria isolated in different regions of the lake were identified to a generic level. The isolates were classified into autochthonous and allochthonous microorganisms on the bases of their distribution pattern in the lake water, halotolerance, and ability to grow at low temperatures.
Microbiological risk assessment of Agios Georgios source supplies in Northwestern Greece based on faecal coliforms determination and sanitary inspection survey.	The assessment of potential risks from microbiological contamination of drinking water supplies is of greatest concern to human health. The study involves the examination of water samples from Agios Georgios source that supplies the capitals, the major towns and several villages of Arta, Preveza and Lefkada prefectures, in Northwestern Greece. The study includes the sanitary inspection survey of the source and the microbiological examination of water samples on a monthly basis during the period February 1996-June 1999 except of Augusts (n=38). The microbiological risk assessment (MRA) approach of World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines was applied to enhance the source protection. The faecal contamination of the source water was quantified using faecal coliforms (FC) as indicator bacteria. Microbiological analyses indicate that of the 38 samples analyzed the FC failure rate (positive samples) was 63.2% according to the limit set by the 98/83 directive of the European Union. The 36.8% of the source water samples was found in conformity with WHO guidelines, 42.1% of low risk, 21.1% of intermediate risk while there was not found samples of high or very high risk. Failure rates displayed a seasonal trend being greater during the winter, decreased during spring and autumn and lower during summer. This observation was explained partially by a significant positive relationship with the rainfall amount (r(Spearmann)=0.890, P=0.001). The sanitary inspection score was found 5/10 during the whole survey period that corresponds to an intermediate risk of source contamination. The color-code classification for FC contamination was found 36.8% A (blue, no risk), 42.1% B (green, low risk) and 21.1% C (yellow, intermediate risk). The previous risks were combined for the assessment of waterborne risk, which was determined as intermediate to high; therefore there is a need for high action priority. The potential remedial actions were also suggested in order to improve the source protection of such supplies.
Monitoring of waters intended for abstraction.	The National Rivers Authority (NRA) monitors rivers for many different purposes. Routine monitoring for specified national and international purposes only serves to categorize the water in the general sense and is unlikely to detect short term quality aberrations. Where rivers support potable abstractions additional monitoring may be required to supplement the more routine data collection. Experience on the River Dee which straddles the North Wales and English border indicates that it is possible to construct a monitoring system that offers a high degree of protection against adverse quality changes but that such protection is both costly and complex and cannot guarantee absolute protection against all foreseeable events. Improved pollution control, the establishment of catchment inventories and protection zone status for sensitive areas may be effective in reducing the risk further. Cooperative investment in monitoring by the NRA and the Water Companies is very effective although differing expectations and standards can produce problems.
The impact of fine sediment accumulation on the survival of incubating salmon progeny: implications for sediment management.	This paper draws on results from a recent research programme on the impact of fine sediment transport through catchments to present a case for the development of new approaches to improving the quality of salmonid spawning and incubation habitats. To aid the development of these programmes, this paper summarises the mechanisms by which fine sediment accumulation influences the availability of oxygen (O2) to incubating salmon embryos. The results of the investigation indicate that incubation success is inhibited by: (i) the impact of fine sediment accumulation on gravel permeability and, subsequently, the rate of passage of oxygenated water through the incubation environment; (ii) reduced intragravel O2 concentrations that occur when O2 consuming material infiltrates spawning and incubation gravels; and (iii) the impact of fine particles (clay) on the exchange of O2 across the egg membrane. It is concluded that current granular measures of spawning and incubation habitat quality do not satisfactorily describe the complexity of factors influencing incubation success. Furthermore, an assessment of the trends in fine sediment infiltration indicates that only a small proportion of the total suspended sediment load infiltrates spawning and incubation gravels. This casts doubt over the ability of current catchment-based land use management strategies to adequately reduce fine sediment inputs.
Unequal respiratory health risk: using GIS to explore hurricane-related flooding of schools in Eastern North Carolina.	This cross-sectional study investigated whether schools serving populations at high risk of developing respiratory infections in the state of North Carolina (USA) were disproportionately burdened by flooding from Hurricane Floyd. We used geographic information systems (GIS) to overlay a satellite-derived image of the flooded land with school locations. We identified 77 flooded schools and 355 schools that were not flooded in 36 counties. These schools were then characterized based on the income, race/ethnicity, and age of their student populations. Prevalence ratios (PRs) revealed that low-income schools in which a majority of students were Black had twice the risk of being flooded (PR 2.01; 95% confidence interval, 1.28, 3.17) compared to the referent group (non-low-income schools with a majority of non-Black students). This analysis suggests that schools serving populations already at elevated risk of respiratory illness were disproportionately affected by the flooding of Hurricane Floyd. GIS can be used to identify and prioritize schools quickly for remediation following natural disasters.
Comparison of microbial community between two shallow freshwater lakes in middle Yangtze basin, East China.	In order to investigate the role of the microbial community in aquatic ecology and nutrient transformations in the development of eutrophication in large shallow freshwater lakes along Yangtze River, the microbial community in the depth-related sediment in Lake Chaohu and Lake Longganhu were compared. Lake Chaohu is one of the three most polluted lakes in China. However, the neighboring Lake Longganhu, a mesotrophic lake, is relatively pristine. The total phosphorous (TP) and total nitrogen (TN) concentration in water was detected at 0.193 mgl(-1) and 3.035 mgl(-1) for Lake Chaohu, 0.051 mgl(-1) and 0.774 mgl(-1) for Lake Longganhu, respectively. The population of the microorganisms with various ecological nutrient transforming functions (e.g. phosphate solubilizing, denitrifying and cellulose decomposing) and a batch of environmental parameters concerning the nutrient accumulating and transforming (e.g. total organic carbon, total nitrogen, and total phosphorous concentrations) were assayed in the depth-related sediment samples from several defined points in both lakes. The sediment samples from Lake Chaohu showed higher density of actinomycetes (P<0.05) and phosphate-solubilizing bacteria (P<0.001) and less profusion of denitrifying bacteria (P<0.05) and cellulolytic microbes (P<0.001), compared with those of Lake Longganhu. The data suggested that the current microbial community in the sediment of Lake Chaohu is in favor of sustaining or further accelerating the process of the lake eutrophication. A possible positive feedback loop which consists of sustained growth of microorganisms and gradual decline of lake eutrophic status is worth further discussing.
Adaptive management, monitoring, and the ecological sustainability of a thermal-polluted water ecosystem: a case in SW Spain.	The construction of the Almaraz nuclear power plant in Spain in the 1970s posed interesting environmental problems concerning the construction of a cooling reservoir (Arrocampo reservoir) to cool the steam condensers and the consequent heating of the reservoir's water. The socio-political context forced decision makers to set up a project for the monitoring and management of the environmental impacts derived from the construction and operation of the power plant. Numerous scientific and technical specialists collaborated with the representatives of social groups towards two goals: the improvement of the biodiversity and of the efficiency of the cooling system. These goals involved the monitoring and managing of the system with respect to different biological aspects, mainly limnology, ichthyology, avian fauna and vegetation. The management plan yielded numerous results. The control of the water eutrophy is one of the most important due to its repercussion on the rest of the ecosystem, especially the fish fauna. The development of the shore vegetation slowly increased the patchwork nature of the reservoir, leading to a greater diversity of the avian species. This paper describes the monitoring and management of the Arrocampo ecosystem, the condition before and after the construction of the reservoir and the results obtained concerning some biological communities.
Elaboration of a water ichtyologic potential index.	A model has been developed, using physico-chemical data, in order to quantify the quality of surface waters and their ichtyologic potential: the WIPI model (Water Ichtyologic Potential Index). Many physico-chemical parameters, useless if considered individually, can be of practical interest for pisciculture (e.g., an explanation of systematic fish mortalities, elaboration of guidelines for new pisciculture). The water quality is expressed in terms of an eight-step scale that provides a guide evaluation of the ichtyologic potential.
Organochlorine concentrations declined during 1987-2002 in western Mediterranean bottlenose dolphins, a coastal top predator.	We collected blubber samples from bottlenose dolphins stranded on Spain's Mediterranean coasts over a 25-year period (1978-2002). Samples were analyzed to determine time trends in levels of: HCB (hexachlorobenzene), PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) and tDDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane and its metabolites). Overall, levels were high relative to other areas. This reflects both the ubiquity of organochlorine pollution in the western Mediterranean and the sampled species' coastal habit. There was a significant decline over the study period in the concentrations of all the compounds analyzed. However, the DDE/tDDT, which is indicative of DDT ageing, significantly increased. This suggests there has been no significant use of HCB, DDT or PCB in the region for a long time. It also indicates that the pollutant loads in the environment are gradually being reduced; either by degradation or by migration of the compounds to other regions. A comparison with dolphin species that have an oceanic distribution suggests that PCB decline at a comparable pace in coastal and offshore water bodies. However, the decline of tDDT is faster near the coast.
Enantiomer fractions of polychlorinated biphenyls in three selected Standard Reference Materials.	The enantiomer composition of six chiral polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were measured in three different certified Standard Reference Materials (SRMs) from the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST): SRM 1946 (Lake Superior fish tissue), SRM 1939a (PCB Congeners in Hudson River Sediment), and SRM 2978 (organic contaminants in mussel tissue--Raritan Bay, New Jersey) to aid in quality assurance/quality control methodologies in the study of chiral pollutants in sediments and biota. Enantiomer fractions (EFs) of PCBs 91, 95, 136, 149, 174, and 183 were measured using a suite of chiral columns by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Concentrations of target analytes were in agreement with certified values. Target analyte EFs in reference materials were measured precisely (<2% relative standard deviation), indicating the utility of SRM in quality assurance/control methodologies for analyses of chiral compounds in environmental samples. Measured EFs were also in agreement with previously published analyses of similar samples, indicating that similar enantioselective processes were taking place in these environmental matrices.
A comparison of alternative strategies for cost-effective water quality management in lakes.	Roughly 45% of the assessed lakes in the United States are impaired for one or more reasons. Eutrophication due to excess phosphorus loading is common in many impaired lakes. Various strategies are available to lake residents for addressing declining lake water quality, including septic system upgrades and establishing riparian buffers. This study examines 25 lakes to determine whether septic upgrades or riparian buffers are a more cost-effective strategy to meet a phosphorus reduction target. We find that riparian buffers are the more cost-effective strategy in every case but one. Large transaction costs associated with the negotiation and monitoring of riparian buffers, however, may be prohibiting lake residents from implementing the most cost-effective strategy.
Screening for unicellular algae as possible bioassay organisms for monitoring marine water samples.	ECOTOX is an automatic early warning system to monitor potential pollution of freshwater, municipal or industrial waste waters or aquatic ecosystems. It is based on a real time image analysis of the motility and orientation parameters of the unicellular, photosynthetic flagellate Euglena gracilis. In order to widen the use of the device to marine habitats and saline waters nine marine flagellates were evaluated as putative bioassay organisms, viz. Dunaliella salina, Dunaliella viridis, Dunaliella bardawil, Prorocentrum minimum Kattegat, P. minimum Lissabon, Tetraselmis suecica, Heterocapsa triquetra, Gyrodinium dorsum and Cryptomonas maculata. Because of their slow growth the last three strains were excluded from further evaluation. Selection criteria were ease of culture, density of cell suspension, stability of motility and gravitactic orientation. The sensitivity toward toxins was tested using copper(II) ions. The instrument allows the user to automatically determine effect-concentration (EC) curves from which the EC(50) values can be calculated. For the interpretation of the EC curves a sigmoid logistic model was proposed which proved to be satisfactory for all tested strains. The inhibition of the motility was considered as the most appropriate movement parameter as an endpoint. The Dunaliella species had the lowest sensitivity to copper with EC(50) values of 220, 198 and 176 mg/L for D. salina, D. bardawil and D. viridis, respectively, followed by T. suecica with an EC(50) value of 40 mg/L. The Prorocentrum species were found to be the most sensitive with an EC(50) value of 13.5 mg/L for P. minimum Lissabon and 7.5 mg/L for P. minimum Kattegat.
Effects of seasonal succession and water pollution on the protozoan community structure in an eutrophic lake.	The purpose of the research is to study the seasonal succession of protozoa community and the effect of water quality on the protozoa community to characterize biochemical processes occurring at a eutrophic Lake Donghu, a large shallow lake in Wuhan City, China. Samples of protozoa communities were obtained monthly at three stations by PFU (polyurethane foam unit) method over a year. Synchronously, water samples also were taken from the stations for the water chemical quality analysis. Six major variables were examined in a principal component analysis (PCA), which indicate the fast changes of water quality in this station I and less within-year variation and a comparatively stable water quality in stations II and III. The community data were analyzed using multivariate techniques, and we show that clusters are rather mixed and poorly separated, suggesting that the community structure is changing gradually, giving a slight merging of clusters form the summer to the autumn and the autumn to the winter. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was used to infer the relationship between water quality variables and phytoplankton community structure, which changed substantially over the survey period. From the analysis of cluster and CCA, coupled by community pollution value (CPV), it is concluded that the key factors driving the change in protozoa community composition in Lake Donghu was water qualities rather than seasons.
Confronting limitations: new solutions required for urban water management in Kunming City.	Despite continuous investment and various efforts to control pollution, urban water environments are worsening in large parts of the developing world. In order to reveal potential constraints and limitations of current practices of urban water management and to stimulate proactive intervention, we conducted a material flow analysis of the urban water system in Kunming City. The results demonstrate that the current efficiency of wastewater treatment is only around 25% and the emission of total phosphorous from the city into its receiving water, Dianchi Lake, is more than 25 times higher than its estimated tolerance. With regard to the crisis of water quantity and quality, the goal of a sustainable urban water environment cannot be attained with the current problem-solving approach in the region due to the technical limitations of the conventional urban drainage and treatment systems. A set of strategies is therefore proposed. The urban drainage system in Zurich is used as a reference for a potential best-available technology for conventional urban water management (BAT) scenario in terms of its low combined frequency of sewer overflow.
Suppression of aromatase activity in populations of bream (Abramis brama) from the river Elbe, Germany.	Aromatase activity was determined in brain and gonads of wild bream collected along the river Elbe, Germany, and correlated with other endocrine and reproductive endpoints such as plasma sex steroid concentrations, secondary sex characteristics (STI), plasma vitellogenin, gonad size (GSI), and maturation stages of germ cells (MS) that were reported for the same fish in a previous study. Furthermore, regional patterns of aromatase activity were correlated to a number of environmental factors such as exposure to environmental contaminants and parasitism. While aromatase activity was not detectable in the gonads of male and female fish with the assay used, fish of both genders revealed relatively great brain enzyme activities. As for most of the endocrine and reproductive parameters, with the exception of plasma testosterone (T), aromatase activities were significantly less in fish from a river stretch characterized by elevated exposures to organic contaminants and metals. Brain aromatase activity was positively and significantly correlated with plasma estradiol (E2) and MS in females, and showed a similar trend with plasma 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) and STI in males. No comparable trend occurred for T. This decrease of the reproductively relevant hormones 11KT and E2 may be indicative of a disruption of the last step in sex hormone synthesis, a hypothesis that was supported for E2 by the strong (R2=0.78, p<0.05) linear regression between aromatase activity and E2 in female bream. It is also hypothesized that the effects on brain aromatase activity were likely to be related to the disruption of other reproductive parameters including sexual maturity and expression of secondary sex characteristics. Although a number of factors such as exposure to pollutants and prevalence of the tapeworm Ligula intestinalis correlated with the suppression of aromatase activity, the exact causes for the regional decrease in brain aromatase activity remain unclear due to inconsistencies of these correlations between sampling events or gender.
Overcoming environmental deterioration through defensive expenditures: field evidence from Bahía del Tóbari (Sonora, México) and implications for coastal impact assessment.	The costs of the maneuvers that fishermen and shrimp farmers have to undertake in a coastal scenario where both the access to navigable waters and water quality have decreased were interpreted as defensive expenditures. Maneuvers were prompted by profound changes in water circulation and siltation mode imposed by major shifts in regional and local land-use patterns. In coastal scenarios under heavy land-based discharges and local geomorphic modifications, local users with little chance to move away may modify their routines in order to maintain existing levels of utility. The concept of defensive expenditures could be used to assess social responses to adverse changes in environmental and resource conditions, as a means to distinguish stages in which local sectors respond individually from qualitatively different stages in which intersectoral events are more conspicuous.
Total and partial digestion of sediments for the evaluation of trace element environmental pollution.	Four different sample treatment methods for the determination of trace elements have been compared: a total digestion with HNO3-H2O2-HF using microwave, and three different standardized methods of fractionation: BCR three-steps sequential extraction, USEPA standard 3050B and ISO standard 11466. The four treatment methods were applied to the determination of Cu and Ni in four samples collected in different areas of Cienfuegos Bay (Cuba). The location of samples and the analytes were selected on the basis of results obtained by previous studies. Analyses following total digestion and BCR three-steps procedure were performed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy whereas analyses following EPA and ISO procedures were performed by flame atomic absorption spectroscopy. The results obtained have been compared with an estimated anthropic fraction evaluated in each sampling point as the difference between the total concentration and an estimated background concentration level. The BCR three-steps provided the best approximation of the estimated anthropic fraction and was therefore applied also in the determination of Pb and Cd for further consideration.
Assessment of fecal pollution sources in a small northern-plains watershed using PCR and phylogenetic analyses of Bacteroidetes 16S rRNA gene.	We evaluated the efficacy, sensitivity, host-specificity, and spatial/temporal dynamics of human- and ruminant-specific 16S rRNA gene Bacteroidetes markers used to assess the sources of fecal pollution in a fecally impacted watershed. Phylogenetic analyses of 1271 fecal and environmental 16S rRNA gene clones were also performed to study the diversity of Bacteroidetes in this watershed. The host-specific assays indicated that ruminant feces were present in 28-54% of the water samples and in all sampling seasons, with increasing frequency in downstream sites. The human-targeted assays indicated that only 3-5% of the water samples were positive for human fecal signals, although a higher percentage of human-associated signals (19-24%) were detected in sediment samples. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that 57% of all water clones clustered with yet-to-be-cultured Bacteroidetes species associated with sequences obtained from ruminant feces, further supporting the prevalence of ruminant contamination in this watershed. However, since several clusters contained sequences from multiple sources, future studies need to consider the potential cosmopolitan nature of these bacterial populations when assessing fecal pollution sources using Bacteroidetes markers. Moreover, additional data is needed in order to understand the distribution of Bacteroidetes host-specific markers and their relationship to water quality regulatory standards.
Water quality indicators and the risk of illness at beaches with nonpoint sources of fecal contamination.	Indicator bacteria are a good predictor of illness at marine beaches that have point sources of pollution with human fecal content. Few studies have addressed the utility of indicator bacteria where nonpoint sources are the dominant fecal input. Extrapolating current water-quality thresholds to such locations is uncertain.
Twenty-five-year study of radionuclides in the Susquehanna river via periphyton biomonitors.	This 25-y study monitored aquatic and terrestrial gamma-ray-emitting radionuclide levels near a nuclear power plant. It is the only known, long-term environmental survey of its kind. It was conducted neither by a utility owner, nor by a government agency, but rather by a private, environmental research institution. Compared to dozens of other flora and fauna, periphyton was found to be the best indicator to biomonitor the Susquehanna River, which runs near PPL Susquehanna's nuclear plant. Sampling began in 1979 before the first plant start-up and continued for the next 24 years. Monitoring began two months after the Three Mile Island accident of 28 March 1979 and includes Three Mile Island area measurements. Ongoing measurements detected fallout from Chernobyl in 1986, as well as I not released from PPL Susquehanna. Although this paper concentrates on radionuclides found in periphyton, the scope of the entire environmental program includes a wide variety of aquatic and land-based plants, animals, and inorganic matter. Other species and matter studied were fish, mussels, snails, crayfish, insects, humus, mushrooms, lichens, squirrels, deer, cabbage, tomatoes, coarse and flocculated sediment, and more. Results show periphyton works well for detection of radionuclide activity, even in concentrations less than 100 Bq kg (picocuries per gram amounts). Data indicate that PPL Susquehanna's radionuclide releases have had no known environmental or human health impact.
Long term prospective of the Seine River system: confronting climatic and direct anthropogenic changes.	To explore the evolution of a human impacted river, the Seine (France), over the 21st century, three driving factors were examined: climate, agriculture, and point source inputs of domestic and industrial origin. Three future scenarios were constructed, by modification of a baseline representative of recent conditions. A climate change scenario, based on simulations by a general circulation model driven by the SRES-A2 scenario of radiative forcing, accounts for an average warming of +3.3 degrees C over the watershed and marked winter increase and summer decrease in precipitation. To illustrate a possible reduction in nitrate pollution from agricultural origin, a scenario of good agricultural practices was considered, introducing catch crops and a 20% decrease in nitrogen fertilisation. Future point source pollution was estimated following the assumptions embedded in scenario SRES-A2 regarding demographic, economic and technologic changes, leading to reductions of 30 to 75% compared to 2000, depending on the pollutants. Four models, addressing separate components of the river system (agronomical model, hydrogeological model, land surface model and water quality model), were used to analyse the relative impact of these scenarios on water quality, in light of their impact on hydrology and crop production. The first-order driving factor of water quality over the 21st century is the projected reduction of point source pollution, inducing a noticeable decrease in eutrophication and oxygen deficits downstream from Paris. The impact of climate change on these terms is driven by the warming of the water column. It enhances algal growth in spring and the loss factors responsible for phytoplankton mortality in late summer (grazers and viruses). In contrast, increased seasonal contrasts in river discharge have a negligible impact on river water quality, as do the changes in riverine nitrate concentration, which never gets limiting. The latter changes have a similar magnitude under the three scenarios. Under climate change, riverine and groundwater nitrate concentrations increase and crop production is advantaged with reduced growing cycles and increased yields. In contrast, nitrate concentrations decrease under the good agricultural practices scenario, with a limited decrease in crop production. When these two scenarios are combined, the changes in nitrate concentrations balance each other and crop yields increase. The results of this numerical exercise indicate that the potential changes to the Seine River system during the 21st century will not lead to severely degraded water quality.
A simple methodology for the evaluation of groundwater pollution risks.	Groundwater represents a very significant source of fresh water for irrigation and drinking purposes and therefore preserving the availability and quality of this resource is extremely important. A first assessment of the amount of pollutants that can be exported to groundwater via soil drainage can be made by a) measuring the amount of contaminants present in the soil solution at the bottom of the soil after a prolonged simulated rainfall event, and b) estimating the amount of drainage water passing the soil bottom during a period of time long enough to include sufficient instances of both, wet and dry episodes inherent to the local climate. Drainage water was estimated by means of a simple infiltration model ("bucket model") which computes on a daily basis the inputs and outputs of soil water through rainfall and evapotranspiration generated by a stochastic model of the local climate along a period of 50-100 years. The methodology was applied in the Guadiamar valley after the toxic spill of a pyrite mine in Aznalcóllar (Spain). The results show that Zn is the dominant contaminant at the site with a 1.2 g m(-2)year(-1) contribution to groundwater. The presence of a gravel rich horizon below 50 cm depth reveals an increase in drainage and the threat to groundwater.
Effect of current density on electrolytic transformation of benzene for groundwater remediation.	Electrolytic transformation of benzene in water is evaluated as a potential mechanism that can be implemented for in situ remediation of benzene in groundwater. Electrolytic transformation experiments were conducted using inert electrodes that are separated by a membrane. Electrolytes that consist of sodium chloride or sodium nitrate solutions with 40 mg/L benzene concentration were used. Electric currents of 1, 5 and 10 mA (1.8, 9.0 and 18.1 mA/L, respectively) were applied and the transformation of benzene was monitored and compared with a control. The results show that electrolytic transformation of benzene occurred under different rates that depend upon the type of electrolyte and the current density. Transformation results in formation of chlorinated benzene when sodium chloride is the electrolyte. However, processing for long enough time (up to 300 h) resulted in transformation of the chlorinated benzene byproducts. Benzene transformation occurred when the electrolyte was sodium nitrate but the rate was slower than the case with sodium chloride. The results did no show formation of byproducts in this case. The transformation rate was dependent on the current density. The results with sodium chloride showed that the rate increases with increasing the current density, but there is an optimum value, beyond which increasing the current density will not increase the transformation rate.
A screening tool for vulnerability assessment of pesticide leaching to groundwater for the islands of Hawaii, USA.	This paper describes an updated version of a screening tool for groundwater vulnerability assessment to evaluate pesticide leaching to groundwater, based on a revised version of the attenuation factor. The tool has been implemented in a geographical information system (GIS) covering the major islands of the state of Hawaii, USA. The Hawaii Department of Agriculture currently uses the tool in their pesticide evaluation process as a first-tier screening tool. The basic soil properties and pesticide properties necessary to compute the index, and estimates of their uncertainty, are included in the GIS. Uncertainties in soil and pesticide properties are accounted for using first-order uncertainty analysis. Classifications of pesticides as 'likely', 'uncertain' or 'unlikely' to leach are made on the basis of the uncertainty and a comparison of the revised attenuation factor with values and uncertainties of two reference chemicals. The reference chemicals represent what are considered to be a 'leachable' and a 'non-leachable' pesticide under Hawaii conditions. It is concluded that the tool is suitable for screening new and already used pesticides for the islands of Hawaii. However, the tool is associated with uncertainties that are not accounted for, so a conservative approach with respect to interpretation of the results and selection of pesticide parameters used in the tool is recommended.
New tools for modelling water quality of hydrosystems: an application in the Seine River basin in the frame of the Water Framework Directive.	The implementation of the European Water Framework Directive requires new tools for predicting the effect of expected measures taken in the watershed on water quality at the scale of large regional river systems. In the Seine basin, four models, developed in a research context, have been chained to each other to simulate water quality and biogeochemical functioning of the hydrosystem from headwater streams to the coastal marine area. All four models are based on a similar deterministic approach and share a common description of the biogeochemical processes, allowing them to exchange information. Each model differently represents the hydro-sedimentological processes, and uses different time and space resolution, in order to tackle with the specific problematic of each sub-system. This cascade of models has been used for testing a prospective scenario of water resources management at the horizon of 2015, established by Water Authorities of the Seine-Normandy district. The simulation predicts a general improvement of water quality concerning those variables linked to point sources of pollution (ammonium, oxygen, phosphate), even if, locally, this improvement can be insufficient for meeting the expected quality standards. The predicted improvement of the quality of the Seine River downstream from Paris and its estuary is large. However, the predicted very significant drop of phosphate contamination, although beneficial for limiting the problems of coastal marine eutrophication, does not lead to a significant control of phytoplankton development in the rivers upstream from Paris. The simulation also predicts a general increase in nitrate contamination mainly linked to diffuse sources from agricultural areas.
Production vs. respiration in river systems: an indicator of an "ecological status".	The Riverstrahler model of ecological functioning of large drainage networks validated on the Seine river system has been used for calculating the seasonal variations of Production and Respiration at various spatial scales (e.g. according to river orders). Based on the measurements of biological processes, the P/R ratio has led to an evaluation of the "ecological functioning", beyond the notion of "good ecological status". Furthermore, the effects, on the P/R ratio, of the geomorphological and climate factors characterizing the Hydro-Eco-Regions (HER) of the Seine watershed have been quantitatively explored with the model. Whereas one finds a typical upstream-downstream pattern of the P/R ratio variations under the traditional rural conditions that prevailed in the Seine basin until the end of the 18th century, this pattern is strongly affected by the changes in urban populations and the implementation of wastewater collection and treatment, more than by the specificity of the physical factors characterizing the different HER. We have also found that autotrophy (a P/R ratio >1) might leads to eutrophication symptoms when P exceeds 1-2 mg C m(-2) d(-1) and that heterotrophy of the system (P/R ratio< 1) would reveal organic pollution when R exceeds 1-2 mg C m(-2) d(-1), stocks and fluxes of organic matter being expressed in carbon unit. Consequently, the P/R ratio appears as a good indicator of the perturbations caused by human activities in the watershed. The Riverstrahler model is able to quantify this effect.
Organic and inorganic pollution of the Vistula River basin.	The main aim of this work is focused therefore on water quality assessment of the Vistula river and its primary tributaries. The study presents the analytical results of the contamination level of different organic and inorganic pollutants as well as the chemometric evaluation of the entire data set. A broad spectrum of compounds have been determined, including pesticides, polichlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), phenols, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), heavy metals, inorganic ions and some aggregate parameters like BOD. Majority of the organic xenobiotics have been analyzed for first time in the Vistula region on a large, long-term scale. Chemometric evaluation allowed the determination of natural clusters and groups of monitoring locations with similar pollution character. Chemometric analysis confirmed the classification of water purity of the Vistula River basin is related to the land utilization character in this region.
Performance reconnaissance of stormwater proprietary best management practices.	This paper presents a study to investigate the relative pollutant removal effectiveness of three proprietary end-of-pipe Best Management Practices (BMPs), namely, Baysaver, CDS, and Stormceptor. In this study, controlled conditions were used in order to provide documentation for the performance of the BMPs. For that purpose, a prototype facility was constructed at the University of Central Florida. For each BMP, five tests were conducted with five different flow rates: 1.6, 1.28, 0.96, 0.64, and 0.32 cfs. The monitored pollutants were sediments, nutrients, metals, and litters such as organic leaves, soda cans, plastic bottles, and cigarette butts and boxes. The results showed that some of the pollutants decreased in concentration while others increased between the influent and the effluent of the units. TSS load reductions for Baysaver, CDS and Stormceptor were 62.2%, 71.2%, and 83%, respectively. The performances of the studied BMPs for the pollutants were different. All the studied BMPs had good performance in removing the large sediment particles and litter. However, CDS had lower average inflow velocities in all tests than Baysaver and Stormceptor, causing sediment accumulation in the CDS inlet pipe. This study also showed that there was an increase in the total nitrogen concentration in Stormceptor while the nitrate/nitrite concentration increased in Baysaver and CDS. Other factors that should be considered in BMP evaluation are also presented in this paper.
Toxicity ranking of estuarine sediments on the basis of Sparus aurata biomarkers.	Sparus aurata biomarkers were used to rank sediments from the Sado River estuary (Portugal) according to their toxicity. Initially, the activities of liver ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, liver and gill glutathione S-transferases, muscle lactate dehydrogenase, and brain acetylcholinesterase were tested in a laboratory bioassay with the reference compound benzo[a]pyrene. Enzymatic activities were determined in different tissues of fish exposed for 48, 96, or 240 h to three concentrations of benzo[a]pyrene (25, 50, and 100 microg/L). Induction of liver ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase was observed at all the exposure periods and concentrations, suggesting a continuous response of this system to toxicant exposure. Induction of liver glutathione S-transferases activity was only observed after 240 h of exposure, whereas gill glutathione S-transferases activity was significantly inhibited at all the exposure periods, suggesting a direct or indirect effect of the toxicant on these enzymes. Inhibition of lactate dehydrogenases activity was only observed after 96 h of exposure to 25 microg/L of benzo[a]pyrene. No significant effects were observed on acetylcholinesterase activity, suggesting that cholinergic function of S. aurata is not affected by benzo[a]pyrene. In a second phase, fish were exposed for 240 h to sediments collected at five sites of the Sado River estuary, and the same biomarkers were analyzed. For all the enzymes assayed, significant differences among sites were found. In this study, the battery of biomarkers used allowed to discrimination among sites with different types of contamination, levels of contamination, or both, after multivariate data analysis. Discrimination of sites was similar to the ranking provided by a more complex and parallel study (including chemical analysis of sediments, macrobenthic community analysis, amphipod mortality toxicity tests, and sea urchin abnormality embryo assays), suggesting its suitability to evaluate the toxicity of estuarine sediments.
Serum levels of the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor in individuals exposed to arsenic in drinking water in Bangladesh.	Epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent mechanisms have been implicated in growth signal transduction pathways that contribute to cancer development, including dermal carcinogenesis. Detection of the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR ECD) in serum has been suggested as a potential biomarker for monitoring this effect in vivo. Arsenic is a known human carcinogen, producing skin and other malignancies in populations exposed through their drinking water. One such exposed population, which we have been studying for a number of years, is in Bangladesh. The purpose of this study was to examine the EGFR ECD as a potential biomarker of arsenic exposure and/or effect in this population. Levels of the EGFR ECD were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the serum samples from 574 individuals with a range of arsenic exposures from drinking water in the Araihazar area of Bangladesh. In multiple regression analysis, serum EGFR ECD was found to be positively associated with three different measures of arsenic exposure (well water arsenic, urinary arsenic and a cumulative arsenic index) at statistically significant levels (p<or=0.034), and this association was strongest among the individuals with arsenic-induced skin lesions (p <or= 0.002). When the study subjects were stratified in tertiles of serum EGFR ECD levels, the risk of skin lesions increased progressively for each increase in all three arsenic measures (also stratified in tertiles) and this increasing risk became more pronounced among subjects within the highest tertile of EGFR ECD levels. These results suggest that serum EGFR ECD levels may be a potential biomarker of effect of arsenic exposure and may indicate those exposed individuals at greatest risk for the development of arsenic-induced skin lesions.
Issues for microbial regulation: Aeromonas as a model.	The decision by public health agencies to regulate specific microorganisms that may be found in drinking water can only be made if specific criteria find that a microorganism poses a health risk. These criteria should include: (1) there is a clinical history of an organism causing disease from the ingestion of drinking water; (2) there is epidemiological evidence that drinking water rather than food or other vectors is a major source of disease; (3) there is sufficient evidence that the target organism, if found in water, possesses virulence factors capable of causing disease in humans; (4) there is sufficient evidence that the target organism is not readily removed or inactivated by multi-barrier conventional water treatment process (e.g., coagulation-filtration-disinfection); (5) there is sufficient evidence that the target organism, if surviving conventional treatment, will be viable, virulent, and present in sufficient numbers to cause disease; (6) there are robust analytical methods for the target organism which have acceptable sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility to measure accurately the presence of the target organism in treated water; and (7) the performance criteria of analytical method(s) for the target organism have been certified by the appropriate public health agency, and there is intra-laboratory field-test performance data to base this certification.
Rapid quantitative detection of sulfate reducing bacteria in oil field]	It take long time and high cost to measure sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) in wastewater of oil field. A rapid quantitative method was developed by combining polymerase chain reaction(PCR) and most probable number (MPN) to measure sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) in wastewater of oil field. The bacterium solution was directly prepared from wastewater for PCR amplification, which ensured quantitative accuracy. Reaction system and amplification condition were designed using universal primers DSR1F and DSR5R of dissimilatory sulfite reductase in SRB. The result show that the accuracy of this method is two magnitude higher than that of MPN. The whole measuring process take 3 - 4 hours and the reproducibility of this method is extremely stable, being fit to practical process.
Benthic flora and reproduction of Batophora spp. algae (Chlorophyta: Dasycladaceae) in a polluted coastal lagoon (Chetumal Bay, Mexico)]	The benthic flora, and the vegetative and reproductive characters of the algae Batophora oerstedii and B. occidentalis (Chlorophyta) were recorded from five sites of Chetumal Bay, Quintana Roo, Mexico. A sewage gradient has been reported along those sites. Plants were sampled in May and October 1999, which corresponded to dry and rainy seasons, respectively. Forty taxa were found, 11 are new records for the Chetumal Bay, and 6 are new records for the Mexican Caribbean. Enteromorpha species were present in sites known as rich in organic matter (both from anthropogenic and natural sources). Batophora spp. is the dominant algae in all Chetumal Bay. However, it was absent next to sewage outfalls. The morphological characters of B. oerstedii and B. occidentalis did not change significantly along the sites reported as polluted. The length and width of gametophores, as well as the diameter of the gametangia were clearly different for both species. Different reproductive strategies may help B. oerstedii and B. occidentalis to closely coexist in the Chetumal Bay.
Risk management of BTEX contamination in ground water--an integrated fuzzy approach.	Abstract An integrated fuzzy simulation-assessment method (FSAM) was developed for assessing environmental risks from petroleum hydrocarbon contamination in ground water. In the FSAM, techniques of fuzzy simulation and fuzzy risk assessment were coupled into a general framework to reflect a variety of system uncertainties. A petroleum-contaminated site located in western Canada was selected as a study case for demonstrating applicability of the proposed method. The risk assessment results demonstrated that system uncertainties would significantly impact expressions of risk-level outputs. A relatively deterministic expression of the risks would have clearer representations of the study problem but may miss valuable uncertain information; conversely, an assessment under vaguer system conditions would help reveal potential consequences of adverse effects but would suffer from a higher degree of fuzziness in presenting the modeling outputs. Based on the risk assessment results, a decision analysis procedure was used to calculate a general risk index (GRI) to help identify proper responsive actions. The proposed method was useful for evaluating risks within a system containing multiple factors with complicated uncertainties and interactions and providing support for identifying proper site management strategies.
Parameter uncertainty analysis of the non-point source pollution in the Daning River watershed of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region, China.	The generation and formation of non-point source pollution involves great uncertainty, and this uncertainty makes monitoring and controlling pollution very difficult. Understanding the main parameters that affect non-point source pollution uncertainty is necessary to provide the basis for the planning and design of control measures. In this study, three methods were adopted to do the parameter uncertainty analysis with the Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT). Based on the results of parameter sensitivity analysis by the Morris screening method, the ten parameters that most affect runoff, sediment, organic N, nitrate, and total phosphorous (TP) were chosen for further uncertainty analysis. First-order error analysis (FOEA) and the Monte Carlo method (MC) were used to analyze the effect of parameter uncertainty on model outputs. FOEA results showed that only a few parameters had significantly affected the uncertainty of the final simulation results, and many parameters had little or no effect. The SCS curve number was the parameter with significant uncertainty impact on runoff, sediment, organic N, nitrate and TP, and it showed that the runoff process was mainly responsible for the uncertainty of non-point source pollution load. The uncertainty of sediment was the biggest among the five model output results described above. MC results indicated that neglecting the parameter uncertainty of the model would underestimate the non-point source pollution load, and that the relationship between model input and output was non-linear. The uncertainty of non-point source pollution exhibited a temporal pattern: It was greater in summer than in winter. The uncertainty of runoff was smaller compared to that of sediment, organic N, nitrate, and TP, and the source of uncertainty was mainly affected by parameters associated with runoff.
Development and application of a one-step low cost procedure to concentrate viruses from seawater samples.	A novel and simple procedure for concentrating adenoviruses from seawater samples is described. The technique entails the adsorption of viruses to pre-flocculated skimmed milk proteins, allowing the flocs to sediment by gravity, and dissolving the separated sediment in phosphate buffer. Concentrated virus may be detected by PCR techniques following nucleic acid extraction. The method requires no specialized equipment other than that usually available in routine public health laboratories, and due to its straightforwardness it allows the processing of a larger number of water samples simultaneously. The usefulness of the method was demonstrated in concentration of virus in multiple seawater samples during a survey of adenoviruses in coastal waters.
Analysis of different pipe corrosion by ESEM and bacteria identification by API in pilot distribution network]	To understand the corrosion of different material water supply pipelines and bacterium in drinking water and biofilms.
Dynamic weighting system for water quality index.	Water quality standards are developed world over by National and International agencies for pollution control decision-making. Use-based water quality classification criteria and Water Quality Indices (WQIs) also play important role in assessment of water resources for their suitability with reference various uses. Formulation of value function curves and weights assigned to parameters in WQIs are often defined by local water experts and hence WQIs are known to inherit subjectivity. Assignment of weights a priori to various water quality parameters results in misclassification of water quality by WQI. A method of dynamic weighting has been developed in the present work to assign weights to water quality parameters with due consideration to their pollution effect at a particular site. Application of a methodology to Overall Index of Pollution (OIP) provides water quality classification of Indian rivers as "Polluted", "Acceptable", and "Slightly Polluted", which is comparable with the reported CPCB classification as well as with the statistical index CCME-WQI. The methodology developed is general and can be applied to any subjective index. This is exemplified by dynamically weighting the parameters in NSF-WQI for Red and Waikato rivers. Dynamic weighting system provides a true representation to comprehend water quality classification and to achieve River Quality Objectives.
Genotoxicity assessment in aquatic environment impacted by the presence of heavy metals.	The aim of this study was to access the genotoxic potential of Extremoz Lake waters in Northeastern Brazilian coast, using the Allium cepa system, piscine micronucleus test and comet assay. In addition, heavy metal levels were quantified by atomic absorption flame spectrometry. The results of the A. cepa system showed significant changes in the frequency of chromosome aberrations and in the mitotic index compared to negative control. No significant changes were observed in micronuclei frequency in the erythrocytes of Oreochromis niloticus. The comet assay showed a statistically significant alteration in the level of DNA breaks of O. niloticus. Chemical analysis detected an increase in heavy metal levels in different sampling periods. These results point out a state of deterioration of water quality at Extremoz Lake, caused by heavy metal contamination and genotoxic activity. It is recommended to establish a monitoring program for the presence of genotoxic agents in this water lake.
A drinking water crisis in Lake Taihu, China: linkage to climatic variability and lake management.	In late May, 2007, a drinking water crisis took place in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China, following a massive bloom of the toxin producing cyanobacteria Microcystis spp. in Lake Taihu, China's third largest freshwater lake. Taihu was the city's sole water supply, leaving approximately two million people without drinking water for at least a week. This cyanobacterial bloom event began two months earlier than previously documented for Microcystis blooms in Taihu. This was attributed to an unusually warm spring. The prevailing wind direction during this period caused the bloom to accumulate at the shoreline near the intake of the water plant. Water was diverted from the nearby Yangtze River in an effort to flush the lake of the bloom. However, this management action was counterproductive, because it produced a current which transported the bloom into the intake, exacerbating the drinking water contamination problem. The severity of this microcystin toxin containing bloom and the ensuing drinking water crisis were attributable to excessive nutrient enrichment; however, a multi-annual warming trend extended the bloom period and amplified its severity, and this was made worse by unanticipated negative impacts of water management. Long-term management must therefore consider both the human and climatic factors controlling these blooms and their impacts on water supply in this and other large lakes threatened by accelerating eutrophication.
Spatial variation and source apportionment of water pollution in Qiantang River (China) using statistical techniques.	Understanding the spatial distribution and apportioning the sources of water pollution are important in the study and efficient management of water resources. In this work, we considered data for 13 water quality variables collected during the year 2004 at 46 monitoring sites along the Qiantang River (China). Fuzzy comprehensive analysis categorized the data into three major pollution zones (low, moderate, and high) based on national quality standards for surface waters, China. Most sites classified as "low pollution zones" (LP) occurred in the main river channel, whereas those classified as "moderate and high pollution zones" (MP and HP, respectively) occurred in the tributaries. Factor analysis identified two potential pollution sources that explained 67% of the total variance in LP, two potential pollution sources that explained 73% of the total variance in MP, and three potential pollution sources that explained 80% of the total variance in HP. UNMIX was used to estimate contributions from identified pollution sources to each water quality variable and each monitoring site. Most water quality variables were influenced primarily by pollution due to industrial wastewater, agricultural activities and urban runoff. In LP, non-point source pollution such as agricultural runoff and urban runoff dominated; in MP and HP, mixed source pollution dominated. The pollution in the small tributaries was more serious than that in the main channel. These results provide information for developing better pollution control strategies for the Qiantang River.
Bio-diatomite dynamic membrane reactor for micro-polluted surface water treatment.	This work investigated the feasibility of treating micro-polluted surface water for drinking water production with a bio-diatomite dynamic membrane reactor (BDDMR) at lab-scale in continuous-flow mode. Results indicate that the BDDMR was effective in removing COD(Mn), DOC, UV(254), NH(3)-N and trihalomethanes' formation potential (THMFP) at a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 3.5h due to its high concentrations of mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) and mixed liquor volatile suspended solids (MLVSS). The removal of pollutants was mainly ascribed to microbial degradation in BDDMR because the dynamic membrane alone was much less effective in pollutant removal. Though the diatomite particles (5-20microm) were much smaller in size than the aperture of the stainless steel support mesh (74microm), microorganisms and their extracellular polymer substances could bind these particles tightly to form bio-diatomite particles which were completely retained by the support mesh. The analysis of molecular weight (MW) distribution by gel permeation chromatography (GPC) shows that the BDDMR could effectively remove the hydrophilic fraction of dissolved organic materials present in the raw water.
Effect of turfgrass establishment practices and composted biosolids on water quality.	Land application of composted municipal biosolids (CMB) enhances soil physical properties and turf establishment. Yet large, volume-based rates of CMB can increase nonpoint source losses of sediment and nutrients from urban soils to surface waters. The objectives were (i) to compare runoff losses of sediment, N, P, and organic C among contrasting establishment treatments for bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. x C. transvaalensis Burtt-Davy, var. Tifway] and (ii) to evaluate relationships between runoff and soil measurements of N, P, and organic C. Three replications of seven establishment treatments were installed on an excavated slope (8.5%) under field conditions. Five treatments comprised sod transplanted from Tifway bermudagrass grown with and without CMB on soil with and without incorporation of CMB. Two other treatments were composed of Tifway sprigged in soil with and without CMB. Runoff from seven natural rain events was channeled into collection tanks for sampling and analysis. Runoff concentrations and mass loss of dissolved P and organic C forms were greater for CMB-amended sod than for sprigs planted in soil with or without CMB or treatments comprising sod established without CMB. In addition, a linear relationship (R(2) = 0.87) was observed between water extractable soil P of sodded and sprigged treatments and concentrations and mass losses of dissolved P in runoff. Transplanted sod reduced sediment loss compared with sprigged treatments and incorporation of CMB reduced sediment loss from sprigged treatments. Incorporation of CMB within soil on which sod grown without CMB was transplanted proved the best option for achieving benefits of CMB while reducing nutrient runoff loss compared to sod transplanted from Tifway grown with CMB.
Evaluation of water quality in Er-longshan reservoir by fuzzy model.	The Er-longshan reservoir, located in Harbin city, Heilongjiang province, plays a significant role in development of economy and society. It's one of the most important fresh water sources for drinking as well as the safeguard of flood and soil erosion. Thus, as the monitored place in this study, its water quality was measured and predicted through a fuzzy model. The objective of this paper is to illustrate how to set up an appropriate subjection function model to solve the fuzzy problem. Most environmental monitoring data that can not be compared may be mapped into subjection degrees, and analyzed for their weight coefficients, yielding the best situation in multi-objective comprehensive exponential decision-making matrix.An appropriate subjection function model was set up to solve the fuzzy problem. Five kinds of pollution sources were investigated: the point source, the plane source, the entering river (Feiketu river), precipitation and falling dust and touring pollution around the reservoir area respectively. The distribution of floating algae in Er-longshan reservoir was also examined. Farmland plane source pollution was found to be the major controllable pollution source by monitoring TN and TP pollution loads, which occupy 84.8% and 84.0% of the controllable pollution source respectively. When we evaluate data of water quality, the concentration of part pollutant factors increases while others may decreases, then whether the whole water quality is to increase or decrease, from the monitor data is not easy to judge. In this study we used the fuzzy theory to analyze the trends of water quality fluctuations in the Er-longshan reservoir. COD(Mn), BOD, TN and TP were selected as main contamination factors. The results showed that the primary pollutants were nitrogen and phosphorus by calculating the weight coefficient e(i) of contamination factors from 1996 to 2005. According to fuzzy comprehensive exponent z(j) evaluating water quality of reservoir from 1996 to 2005, the ten-year water quality dynamic trend was studied.
Methods for conducting bioassays using embryos and larvae of Pacific herring, Clupea pallasi.	The rapid decrease of several stocks of Pacific herring, Clupea pallasi, in Puget Sound, Washington, has led to concerns about the effects of industrial and nonpoint source contamination on the embryo and larval stages of this and related forage fish species. To address these concerns, the state of Washington and several industries have funded efforts to develop embryo and larval bioassay protocols that can be used by commercial laboratories for routine effluent testing. This article presents the results of research to develop herring embryo and larval bioassay protocols. Factors evaluated during protocol development included temperature, salinity, dissolved oxygen (DO), light intensity, photoperiod, larval feeding regimes, use of brine and artificial sea salts, gonad sources, collection methods, and egg quality.
Water quality evaluation through application of chemometrics for Godavari river at Rajahmundry.	The main aim of this work is focused on water quality assessment of the Godavari river at Rajahmundry and evaluation of pollution data obtained by monitoring during the period August 2003-July 2006. The study presents the application of selected chemometric techniques to the pollution monitoring data set, namely, cluster analysis, principal component analysis, discriminate analysis and factorial analysis. The obtained results allowed determining natural clusters and groups of monitoring locations with similar pollution character and identifying important discriminate variables. On the basis of the chemometric approach, it was found that some locations were under high influence of municipal contamination and industrial effluents, and some other under the influence of agriculture.
Do free-living amoebae in treated drinking water systems present an emerging health risk?	There is an expanding body of evidence that free-living amoebae (FLA) increase both the numbers and virulence of water-based, human-pathogenic, amoeba-resisting microorganisms (ARM). Legionella spp., Mycobacterium spp., and other opportunistic human pathogens are known to be both ARM and also the etiologic agents of potentially fatal human lung infections. However, comparatively little is known about the FLA that may facilitate ARM growth in drinking water. This review examines the available literature on FLA in treated drinking water systems; in total 26 studies from 18 different countries. FLA were reported to breakthrough the water treatment barrier and enter distribution systems, in addition to the expected post-treatment system ingress. Once in the distribution system there is evidence of FLA colonization and regrowth especially in reservoirs and in-premise plumbing storage tanks. At the point of use the average FLA detection rate was 45% but highly variable (n = 16, σ = 31) due to both differences in both assay methods and the type of water systems examined. This review reveals that FLA are consistently detected in treated drinking water systems around the world and present a yet unquantified emerging health risk. However, more research is urgently required before accurate risks assessments can be undertaken to assess the impacts on human health, in households and institutions, due to exposure to FLA facilitated pathogenic ARM.
Optimization of breeding output for larval stage of Anopheles gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae): prospects for the creation and maintenance of laboratory colony from wild isolates.	Domesticating anopheline species from wild isolates provides an important laboratory tool but requires detailed knowledge of their natural biology and ecology, especially the natural breeding habitats of immature stages. The aim of this study was to determine the optimal values of some parameters of Anopheles gambiae larval development, so as to design a standard rearing protocol of highland isolates, which would ensure: the biggest fourth instars, the highest pupae productivity, the shortest duration of the larval stage and the best synchronization of pupation. The density of larvae, the size of breeding water and the quantity of food supplied were tested for their effect on larval growth. Moreover, three cheap foodstuffs were selected and tested for their capability to improve the breeding yield versus TetraMin® as the standard control. The larval density was a very sensitive parameter. Its optimal value, which was found to be ≈1 cm-2 surface area, yielded a daily pupation peak of 38.7% on day 8 post-oviposition, and a global pupae productivity of 78.7% over a duration range of three days. Anopheles gambiae's larval growth, survival and developmental synchronization were density-dependent, and this species responded to overcrowding by producing smaller fourth instars and fewer pupae, over elongated immature lifetime and duration range of pupae occurrence, as a consequence of intraspecific competition. While shallow breeding waters (<3 cm) produced a higher number of pupae than deeper ones, no effect of the breeding habitat's absolute surface area on larval development was observed. Increasing the daily food supply improved the pupae productivity but also boosted the water pollution level (which was assessed by the biological oxygen demand (BOD) and the chemical oxygen demand (COD)) up to a limit depending on the food quality, above which a rapid increase in larval mortality was recorded. The food quality that could substitute the manufactured baby fish food was obtained with weighed mixture of 1 wheat+1 shrimp+2 fish. On establishing an anopheline mosquito colony in the laboratory, special care should be taken to design and maintain the appropriate optimal values of larval density, water depth, daily diet quantity and nutritional quality.
Reliability of groundwater vulnerability maps obtained through statistical methods.	Statistical methods are widely used in environmental studies to evaluate natural hazards. Within groundwater vulnerability in particular, statistical methods are used to support decisions about environmental planning and management. The production of vulnerability maps obtained by statistical methods can greatly help decision making. One of the key points in all of these studies is the validation of the model outputs, which is performed through the application of various techniques to analyze the quality and reliability of the final results and to evaluate the model having the best performance. In this study, a groundwater vulnerability assessment to nitrate contamination was performed for the shallow aquifer located in the Province of Milan (Italy). The Weights of Evidence modeling technique was used to generate six model outputs, each one with a different number of input predictive factors. Considering that a vulnerability map is meaningful and useful only if it represents the study area through a limited number of classes with different degrees of vulnerability, the spatial agreement of different reclassified maps has been evaluated through the kappa statistics and a series of validation procedures has been proposed and applied to evaluate the reliability of the reclassified maps. Results show that performance is not directly related to the number of input predictor factors and that is possible to identify, among apparently similar maps, those best representing groundwater vulnerability in the study area. Thus, vulnerability maps generated using statistical modeling techniques have to be carefully handled before they are disseminated. Indeed, the results may appear to be excellent and final maps may perform quite well when, in fact, the depicted spatial distribution of vulnerability is greatly different from the actual one. For this reason, it is necessary to carefully evaluate the obtained results using multiple statistical techniques that are capable of providing quantitative insight into the analysis of the results. This evaluation should be done at least to reduce the questionability of the results and so to limit the number of potential choices.
Cost effectiveness of nitrate leaching mitigation measures for grassland livestock systems at locations in England and Wales.	As much as 60% of the nitrate in water in England is thought to derive from agriculture. Legislation aims to improve water quality by limiting nitrate concentration in surface and groundwaters to 50 mg l(-1). The UK Government responded to the requirements of the EC Nitrate Directive by delineating Nitrate Vulnerable Zones (NVZs) to cover 55% of England in 2002 and increased it to 70% in 2009. In this study we assessed the cost-effectiveness of measures for implementation in livestock systems to mitigate nitrate leaching in the UK. These estimates were prepared for a range of hypothetical farms representative of typical dairy, beef and sheep farms at different locations in England and Wales and for a list of mitigation measures identified to reduce leaching. The NGAUGE and NFixCycle models were used to estimate leaching from these systems. The costs of implementation of the mitigation measures were also assessed in order to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of these measures. In general, the most effective measures to reduce leaching for all systems were the ones that involved a reduction in stocking rates and grazing time, followed by those involving improvements in fertiliser and crop management. Only in the case of the dairy system was effectiveness affected by location of the farm. The costs for implementation in the sheep system were relatively low compared with beef and dairy systems. Implementation of some of the measures with high cost-effectiveness would need to be incentivised financially or with legislation due to the high costs involved.
Hypothesis-driven approach for the identification of fecal pollution sources in water resources.	Water resource management must strive to link catchment information with water quality monitoring. The present study attempted this for the field of microbial fecal source tracking (MST). A fecal pollution source profile based on catchment data (e.g., prevalence of fecal sources) was used to formulate a hypothesis about the dominant sources of pollution in an Austrian mountainous karst spring catchment. This allowed a statistical definition of methodical requirements necessary for an informed choice of MST methods. The hypothesis was tested in a 17-month investigation of spring water quality. The study followed a nested sampling design in order to cover the hydrological and pollution dynamics of the spring and to assess effects such as differential persistence between parameters. Genetic markers for the potential fecal sources as well as microbiological, hydrological, and chemo-physical parameters were measured. The hypothesis that ruminant animals were the dominant sources of fecal pollution in the catchment was clearly confirmed. It was also shown that the concentration of ruminant markers in feces was equally distributed in different ruminant source groups. The developed approach provides a tool for careful decision-making in MST study design and might be applied on various types of catchments and pollution situations.
New methodological approaches to the detection and quantitative registration of Salmonella in the study of water objects]	The paper gives data on the use of techniques to detect and register Salmonella in the water objects, by applying a new liquid nutrient medium. Experimental and field studies have shown its advantage over the accumulation media widely used in practical healthcare. It has been ascertained that the nutrient medium not only accumulates biomass, but also provides the restoration of the biological properties of uncultivated Salmonella species. The use of the nutrient medium at practical laboratories makes it possible to unify guidelines for the examination of water objects with varying degrees of biological pollution and to obtain the comparable results of analyses.
Comparative study of N, P output and eutrophication risk in runoff water in cross ridge and longitudinal ridge]	Field in-situ rainfall simulation tests with two rainfall intensities (40 mm x h(-1) and 70 mm x h(-1)), which were conducted at typical sloping cropland in Yimeng mountainous area, were designed to analyze the output characteristics of dissolved inorganic nitrogen, Inorganic-N (NO3(-)-N, NH4(+) -N) and dissolved phosphorus (DP) in runoff water, as well as to compare the eutrophication risk in this water by calculating three ratios of Inorganic-N/DP, NO3(-) -N/DP, and NH4(+)-N/DP, respectively, in cross ridge and longitudinal ridge tillage methods. Results showed that, under the same rainfall intensity, the DP level in runoff water was higher in cross ridge than longitudinal ridge, while the change of different Inorganic-N level between the two tillage methods were not consistent. Cross ridge could effectively reduce runoff and the output rate of Inorganic-N and DP when compared to the longitudinal ridge tillage, which would be more outstanding with the increases of rainfall intensities. The losses of Inorganic-N and DP in runoff water were 43% and 5% less, respectively, in cross ridge than longitudinal ridge at the 40 mm x h(-1) rainfall intensity, and were 68% and 55%, respectively, at 70 mm x h(-1). The higher Inorganic-N/DP and NO3(-) -N/DP ratios suggest that runoff water from either cross ridge or longitudinal ridge tillage have a certain eutrophication risk, which present an increasing trend during the precipitation-runoff process. Compared with longitudinal ridge, cross ridge can not only hinder the increasing trend of eutrophication risk, but also can significantly lower it, and thus effectively reduce the effect of sloping cropland runoff on the eutrophication processes of receiving waters.
Spectral absorption coefficients of optically active substances in Lake Dianchi]	A field investigation in Lake Dianchi was carried out in November, 2009, and a dataset including absorption coefficients and concentration of water components was collected. Absorption properties and its spatial distribution of Lake Dianchi have been systematically analyzed, the results show that: (1) Absorption spectral curve of total particles (a(p)) are similar with that of phytoplankton (a(ph)), which indicates that phytoplankton absorption dominates absorption of total suspended particles; (2) Significant relationships are found between a(ph) (440), a(ph) (624), a(ph) (675) and concentration of chla, and cyanophyta dominats the quantity of the algae in water columns; (3) There are more phytoplankton existed in northern lake than other areas because of higher level of eutrophication. Comparing with other water columns, discrepancies mainly appear as below: (1) The mean value of slope of absorption spectral curve of non-algal particles (S(d)) in Lake Dianchi is much bigger than that in other case-II waters; (2) The mean value of slope of absorption spectral curve of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) S(g) in Lake Dianchi is much smaller than that in other case-II waters; (3) Specific absorption of phytoplankton (a(ph)*) at 440 nm and 675 nm is at intermediate level, and a(ph)* value is susceptible to different regions, seasons, population structure of phytoplankton and so on.
Zoning of water environment protection in Three Gorges Reservoir watershed]	Regional differences in socio-economic development, land use, vegetation cover, and relative location of water body within a watershed bring about significant effects on the water environment quality of the watershed. Concerning about the core demands of water body protection, it is important and necessary to carry out zoning water environment protection for whole watershed. With a view to the spatial differences in regional characteristics of eco-environment and water body pressure-respond features, this paper studied the zoning of water environment protection in the Three Gorges Reservoir watershed, based on the methods of ecological factors overlay and ecological sensitivity analysis. The factors considered included hydrothermal conditions, terrain topography, administrative unit, and ecological sensitivity. Three regions in the watershed were zoned, i. e., 1) red region, namely strictly protected region, with an area of 2924 km2 and occupying 5.1% of the total; 2) yellow region, namely first class protection region, with an area of 10477 km2 and occupying 18.4%; and 3) blue region, namely second class protection region, with an area of 43599 km2 and occupying 76.5%. The key environmental problems of the regions were identified, and the strategies for the regions' development and water environment protection were proposed.
Coliform and metal contamination in Lago de Colina, a recreational water body in Chihuahua State, Mexico.	Lago de Colina (Colina Lake) is located about 180 km south of the city of Chihuahua (Mexico), and during the Semana Santa (Holy Week) vacation period its recreational use is high. The objective of this study was to quantify coliform and heavy metal levels in this water body before and after the Holy Week vacation period in 2010. Twenty sampling points were randomly selected and two water samples were collected at each point near the surface (0.30 m) and at 1 m depth. After the Holy Week vacation the same twenty points were sampled at the same depths. Therefore, a total 80 water samples were analyzed for fecal and total coliforms and levels of the following metals: Al, As, B, Ca, Cr, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, Ni, Pb, Se, Si and Zn. It was hypothesized that domestic tourism contaminated this water body, and as a consequence, could have a negative impact on visitor health. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) study was performed for each element and its interactions considering a factorial design where factor A was sample date and factor B was sample depth. Fecal coliforms were only detected at eight sampling points in the first week, but after Holy Week, both fecal and total coliforms were detected at most sampling points. The concentrations of Al, B, Na, Ni and Se were only statistically different for factor A. The levels of Cr, Cu, K and Mg was different for both date and depth, but the dual factor interaction was not significant. The amount of Ca and Zn was statistically different due to date, depth and their interaction. No significant differences were found for any factor or the interaction for the elements As, Fe and Mn. Because of the consistent results, it is concluded that local tourism is contaminating the recreational area of Colina Lake, Chihuahua, Mexico.
The applications of GIS in the analysis of the impacts of human activities on south Texas watersheds.	With water resource planning assuming greater importance in environmental protection efforts, analyzing the health of agricultural watersheds using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) becomes essential for decision-makers in Southern Texas. Within the area, there exist numerous threats from conflicting land uses. These include the conversion of land formerly designated for agricultural purposes to other uses. Despite current efforts, anthropogenic factors are greatly contributing to the degradation of watersheds. Additionally, the activities of waste water facilities located in some of the counties, rising populations, and other socioeconomic variables are negatively impacting the quality of water in the agricultural watersheds. To map the location of these stressors spatially and the extent of their impacts across time, the paper adopts a mix scale method of temporal spatial analysis consisting of simple descriptive statistics. In terms of objectives, this research provides geo-spatial analysis of the effects of human activities on agricultural watersheds in Southern Texas and the factors fuelling the concerns under the purview of watershed management. The results point to growing ecosystem decline across time and a geographic cluster of counties experiencing environmental stress. Accordingly, the emergence of stressors such as rising population, increased use of fertilizer treatments on farm land, discharges of atmospheric pollutants and the large presence of municipal and industrial waste treatment facilities emitting pathogens and pesticides directly into the agricultural watersheds pose a growing threat to the quality of the watershed ecosystem.
Assessment of seasonal and sex-related variability of biomarkers in carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) from Karakaya Dam Lake, Turkey.	This study examines seasonal changes in the activities of selected biomarkers in carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) from Karakaya Dam Lake and evaluates the influence of gender and environmental factors on those activities. Physicochemical characteristics of water were evaluated in the lakewater. Fish were sampled on seasonal basis, and liver ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD), glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione reductase, plasma lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate and alanine aminotransferase, and brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities were assayed. Plasma vitellogenin level and hepatosomatic index and condition factors were also determined. Strong seasonal variations were observed but there were no gender differences among selected markers. The highest vitellogenin level of male fish was detected as 606ng/mL which represents the estrogenicity of water in the lake in September 2005. In addition, the seasonal changes of some biomarkers such as EROD and AChE showed that the lake may be at risk of pollution by some xenobiotics arising from agricultural and/or industrial activities.
Transport and fate of mercury under different hydrologic regimes in polluted stream in mining area.	Seepage from Hg mine wastes and calcines contains high concentrations of mercury (Hg). Hg pollution is a major environmental problem in areas with abandoned mercury mines and retorting units. This study evaluates factors, especially the hydrological and sedimentary variables, governing temporal and spatial variation in levels and state of mercury in streams impacted by Hg contaminated runoff. Samples were taken during different flow regimes in the Wanshan Hg mining area in Guizhou Province, China. In its headwaters the sampled streams/rivers pass by several mine wastes and calcines with high concentration of Hg. Seepage causes serious Hg contamination to the downstream area. Concentrations of Hg in water samples showed significant seasonal variations. Periods of higher flow showed high concentrations of total Hg (THg) in water due to more particles being re-suspended and transported. The concentrations of major anions (e.g., Cl-, F-, NO3- and SO4(2-)) were lower during higher flow due to dilution. Due to both sedimentation of particles and dilution from tributaries the concentration of THg decreased from 2100 ng/L to background levels (< 50 ng/L) within 10 km distance downstream. Sedimentation is the main reason for the fast decrease of the concentration, it accounts for 69% and 60% for higher flow and lower flow regimes respectively in the upper part of the stream. Speciation calculation of the dissolved Hg fraction (DHg) (using Visual MINTEQ) showed that Hg(OH)2 associated with dissolved organic matter is the main form of Hg in dissolved phase in surface waters in Wanshan (over 95%).
Cyanobacteria-/cyanotoxin-contaminations and eutrophication status before Wuxi drinking water crisis in Lake Taihu, China.	After the appalling "Wuxi Drinking Water Crisis", increasing investigations concerning the contaminations of cyanobacterial blooms and their toxins in Lake Taihu have been performed and reported in the last two years. However, information regarding these issues before the crisis in 2007 remained insufficient. To provide some background data for further comparisons, the present study reported our investigations conducted in 2004, associated with the cyanotoxin contaminations as well as the eutrophication status in Lake Taihu. Results from the one-year-study near a drinking water resource for Wuxi City indicated that, unlike the status in recent two years, cyanobacteria and chlorophyta are the co-dominance species throughout the year. The highest toxin concentration (34.2 ng/mL) in water columns occurred in August. In bloom biomass, the peak value of intracellular toxin (0.59 microg/mg DW) was determined in October, which was lag behind that in water column. In addition, MC-RR was the major toxin variant throughout the year. During the study period, nutrients levels of total nitrogen and phosphorus were also recorded monthly. Results from the present study will lead to a better understanding of the eutrophication status and the potential risks before "Wuxi Drinking Water Crisis".
Development and application of a water pollution emergency response system for the Three Gorges Reservoir in the Yangtze River, China.	There are many watercraft and production accidents in the Three Gorges Reservoir Area (TGRA) of the Yangtze River in China every year. Accidents threaten the water quality of the 1085 km2 surface area of the TGRA and millions of local people if oil and chemical leakage were to occur. A water pollution management system for emergency response (WPMS_ER) was therefore designed for the management of pollution in this area. An integrated geographic information system (GIS)-based water pollution management information system for the TGRA, called WPMS_ER_TGRA, was developed in this study. ArcGIS engine was used as the system development platform, and Visual Basic as the programming language. The models for hydraulic and water quality simulation and the generation of body-fitted coordinates were developed and programmed as a dynamically linked library file using Visual Basic, and they can be launched by other computer programs. Subsequently, the GIS-based information system was applied to the emergency water pollution management of a shipwreck releasing 10 tons of phenol into the Yangtze River during two hours. The results showed that WPMS_ER_TGRA can assist with emergency water pollution management and simulate the transfer and diffusion of accidental pollutants in the river. Furthermore, it can quickly identify the affected area and how it will change over time within a few minutes of an accident occurring.
Arsenic in Mexican children exposed to contaminated well water.	This cross-sectional study measures the arsenic level in school children exposed to contaminated well water in a rural area in México. Arsenic was measured in hair by hydride generation atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Overall, 110 children were included (average 10 years-old). Among 55 exposed children, mean arsenic level on hair was 1.3 mg/kg (range <0.006-5.9). All unexposed children had undetectable arsenic levels. The high level of arsenic in water was associated to the level in hair. However, exposed children drank less well water at school or at home than unexposed children, suggesting that the use of contaminated water to cook beans, broths or soups may be the source of arsenic exposure.
A bioindicator system for water quality on inshore coral reefs of the Great Barrier Reef.	Responses of bioindicator candidates for water quality were quantified in two studies on inshore coral reefs of the Great Barrier Reef (GBR). In Study 1, 33 of the 38 investigated candidate indicators (including coral physiology, benthos composition, coral recruitment, macrobioeroder densities and FORAM index) showed significant relationships with a composite index of 13 water quality variables. These relationships were confirmed in Study 2 along four other water quality gradients (turbidity and chlorophyll). Changes in water quality led to multi-faceted shifts from phototrophic to heterotrophic benthic communities, and from diverse coral dominated communities to low-diversity communities dominated by macroalgae. Turbidity was the best predictor of biota; hence turbidity measurements remain essential to directly monitor water quality on the GBR, potentially complemented by our final calibrated 12 bioindicators. In combination, this bioindicator system may be used to assess changes in water quality, especially where direct water quality data are unavailable.
Application of enteric viruses for fecal pollution source tracking in environmental waters.	Microbial source tracking (MST) tools are used to identify sources of fecal pollution for accurately assessing public health risk and implementing best management practices (BMPs). This review focuses on the potential of enteric viruses for MST applications. Following host infection, enteric viruses replicate and are excreted in high numbers in the hosts' feces and urine. Due to the specificity in host infection, enteric viruses have been considered one of the most accurate library-independent culture-independent MST tools. In an assessment of molecular viral assays based on sensitivity, specificity and the density of the target virus in fecal-impacted samples, human adenovirus and human polyomavirus were found to be the most promising human-specific viral markers. However, more research is needed to identify promising viral markers for livestock because of cross-reactions that were observed among livestock species or the limited number of samples tested for specificity. Other viral indicators of fecal origin, F+ RNA coliphage and pepper mild mottle virus, have also been proposed as potential targets for developing MST markers. Enhancing the utility of enteric viruses for MST applications through next generation sequencing (NGS) and virus concentration technology is discussed in the latter part of this review. The massive sequence databases generated by shotgun and gene-targeted metagenomics enable more efficient and reliable design of MST assays. Finally, recent studies revealed that alternative virus concentration methodologies may be more cost-effective than standard technologies such as 1MDS; however, improvements in the recovery efficiency and consistency are still needed. Overall, developments in metagenomic information combined with efficient concentration methodologies, as well as high host-specificity, make enteric viruses a promising tool in MST applications.
Modeling of strategies for performance monitoring of groundwater contamination at sites underlain by fractured bedrock.	A three dimensional flow and transport modeling using FRAC3DVS was undertaken to examine factors which influence plume detection in a performance monitoring network for a site where an unconfined aquifer composed of uniform unconsolidated sediments overlies fractured bedrock. The bedrock is assumed to contain a fracture system with three orthogonal fracture sets embedded in a low permeable homogeneous rock matrix. A dissolved phase, non-reactive contaminant is released from a source zone located at the ground surface. The processes which influence plume geometry, and probabilities of plume detection for a performance monitoring network located between the contaminant source and a downstream compliance boundary, are evaluated. Factors considered include the hydraulic conductivity of the unconfined aquifer, the geometric properties of the fracture network and the matrix permeability of the bedrock, and the contaminant detection threshold concentration. The simulations demonstrate that the character of the fracture network not only controls contaminant transport and plume detection in the bedrock but also influences plume detection in the overlying unconfined aquifer. The ratio of the hydraulic conductivity of the unconfined aquifer to the effective hydraulic conductivity of the fractured bedrock, and the contaminant detection threshold concentration, are principal factors influencing detection probability in the performance monitoring network. Results suggest that in many instances encountered in field practice, the unconfined aquifer and fractured bedrock should be viewed as an integrated hydrogeologic system from a monitoring perspective.
Individual treatment of hotel and restaurant waste water in rural areas.	About 25 hotels, restaurants and pubs in the rural community Heuvelland are situated in the area designated for individual water treatment. In order to meet the legislation by the end of 2015, each business needs to install an individual waste water treatment system (IWTS). To study this situation, three catering businesses were selected for further research. The aim of the study was to quantify the effluent quality and to assess IWTS performance for these catering businesses. First of all, the influence of discharging untreated waste water on the receiving surface water was examined. The results showed a decrease in water quality after the discharge point at every business. With the collected data, simulations with the software WEST were performed. With this software two types of IWTSs with different (buffer) volumes were modelled and tested for each catering business. The first type is a completely mixed activated sludge reactor and the second type is a submerged aerobic fixed-bed reactor. The results of these simulations demonstrate that purification with an IWTS is possible if the capacity is large enough and if an adequate buffer volume is installed and if regular maintenance is performed.
Concentration and source identification of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalic acid esters in the surface water of the Yangtze River Delta, China.	The pollution from polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and phthalic acid esters (PAEs) in the surface water of the rapidly urbanized Yangtze River Delta region was investigated. Fourteen surface water samples were collected in June 2010. Water samples were liquid-liquid extracted using methylene chloride and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Concentrations of PAHs and PAEs ranged 12.9-638.1 ng/L and 61-28550 ng/L, respectively. Fluoranthene, naphthalene, pyrene, phenanthrene, di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate, and di-n-butyl phthalate were the most abundant compounds in the samples. The water samples were moderately polluted with benzo[a]pyrene according to China's environmental quality standard for surface water. The two highest concentrations of PAHs and PAEs occurred in samples from Taihu Lake, Wuxi City and the western section of Yangchenghu Lake. Potential sources of pollution at S7 were petroleum combustion and the plastics industry, and at Yangchenghu Lake were petroleum combustion and domestic waste. Pollution in samples from the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal originated from diesel engines. There were no obvious sources of pollution for the other water samples. These results can be used as reference levels for future monitoring programs of pollution from PAHs and PAEs.
Field-deployable and near-real-time optical microfluidic biosensors for single-oocyst-level detection of Cryptosporidium parvum from field water samples.	Cryptosporidium spp. is an obligate, parasitic protozoan that is difficult to detect and causes diarrhea in healthy adults while potentially causing death in the immunocompromised and children. Its treatment options are few and treat the symptoms, not the actual parasite. Current methods of detection are inefficient and rely too heavily upon laboratory sample preparations and technician skill, including differential staining, negative staining, and immunofluorescence methods [especially U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Method 1623]. These assays can take from hours to days and require a laboratory environment. In this work, we demonstrated the microbead immunoagglutination assay combined with Mie scatter detection in a microfluidic device to provide a field-deployable and near-real-time alternative to the laboratory-based method (especially EPA Method 1623). Two main challenges were the relatively big diameter of Cryptosporidium oocysts (5-6 μm) and the contaminants in field water samples that negatively affected the immunoagglutination and its scatter detection. We used 4 min sonication to liberate Cryptosporidium oocyst wall proteins (COWP), which was previously used to inactivate Cryptosporidium oocysts. As for the contaminants, we optimized the microbead diameter (920 nm) and the wavelength of incident light (375 nm) to find the angle of scatter detection (45°) where the Mie scatter from immunoagglutinated microbeads was maximum and the background scatter from contaminants was minimum. This enabled the sub-single-oocyst-level detection despite the fact that only a very small volume of water sample (15 μL) was introduced to the microfluidic biosensor. When combined with filtration/concentration, this method is able to detect ≤1 oocyst per large volume of water, comparable to or potentially better than the EPA method 1623, while effectively reducing the time and labor necessary for staining and microscopic analysis. For faster, near-real-time assays, filtration/concentration may not be used, where the detection limit was 1-10 oocysts per mL with the total assay time of 10 min including the 4 min sonication time. The linear range of assay was over 5 orders of magnitude. The final device was compact and had the potential to be used in field situations, and required less technical expertise and/or training compared to the other methods.
An integrated risk management model for source water protection areas.	Watersheds are recognized as the most effective management unit for the protection of water resources. For surface water supplies that use water from upstream watersheds, evaluating threats to water quality and implementing a watershed management plan are crucial for the maintenance of drinking water safe for humans. The aim of this article is to establish a risk assessment model that provides basic information for identifying critical pollutants and areas at high risk for degraded water quality. In this study, a quantitative risk model that uses hazard quotients for each water quality parameter was combined with a qualitative risk model that uses the relative risk level of potential pollution events in order to characterize the current condition and potential risk of watersheds providing drinking water. In a case study of Taipei Source Water Area in northern Taiwan, total coliforms and total phosphorus were the top two pollutants of concern. Intensive tea-growing and recreational activities around the riparian zone may contribute the greatest pollution to the watershed. Our risk assessment tool may be enhanced by developing, recording, and updating information on pollution sources in the water supply watersheds. Moreover, management authorities could use the resultant information to create watershed risk management plans.
Evaluation of equivalence between different methods for enumeration of fecal indicator bacteria before and after adoption of the new Bathing Water Directive and risk assessment of pollution.	The quality of bathing water is of considerable public importance due to the possibility of fecal contamination. In 2009, Croatia implemented the new European Bathing Water Directive (BWD, 2006/7/EC) establishing stricter microbiological standards for new parameters with new reference methods. This study aims to evaluate the equivalence of different methods according to the old and revised BWD and to provide the possibility of data comparison. Furthermore, the directive requires the establishment of the bathing water profile (BWP) for pollution risk assessment. The estimation of consistency of pollution risk assessment with obtained microbiological results was also performed. Six marine beaches of the Municipality of Rijeka (Croatia) were examined during the 2009 season. Statistical analysis showed equivalence between determination methods for fecal contamination indicators. Based on the current water classification results, the need for correction of estimated pollution risks and recommendations for inclusion of historical microbiological data during BWP enactment was noticed. 
Temporal variability of combined sewer overflow contaminants: evaluation of wastewater micropollutants as tracers of fecal contamination.	A monitoring program was initiated for two sewage outfalls (OA and OB) with different land uses (mainly residential versus institutional) over the course of a year. Eleven CSO events resulting from fall and summer precipitations and a mixture of snowmelt and precipitation in late winter and early spring were monitored. Median concentrations measured in CSOs were 1.5 × 10(6)Escherichia coli/100 mL, 136.0 mg/L of Total Suspended Solids (TSS), 4599.0 ng/L of caffeine (CAF), 158.9 ng/L of carbamazepine (CBZ), in outfall OA and 5.1 × 10(4)E. coli/100 mL, 167.0 mg TSS/L, 300.8 ng CAF/L, 4.1 ng CBZ/L, in outfall OB. Concentration dynamics in CSOs were mostly related to the dilution by stormwater and the time of day of the onset of overflows. Snowmelt was identified as a critical period with regards to the protection of drinking water sources given the high contaminant concentrations and long duration of events in addition to a lack of restrictions on overflows during this period. Correlations among measured parameters reflected the origins and transport pathways of the contaminants, with E. coli being correlated with CBZ. TSS were not correlated with E. coli because E. coli was found to be mostly associated with raw sewage whereas TSS were additionally from the resuspension of in-sewer deposits and surface runoff. In receiving waters, E. coli remained the best indicator of fecal contamination in strongly diluted water samples as compared to WWMPs because WWMPs can be diluted to below their detection limits.
Development and evaluation of a decision-supporting model for identifying the source location of microbial intrusions in real gravity sewer systems.	Assuming a scenario of a hypothetical pathogenic outbreak, we aimed this study at developing a decision-support model for identifying the location of the pathogenic intrusion as a means of facilitating rapid detection and efficient containment. The developed model was applied to a real sewer system (the Campbell wash basin in Tucson, AZ) in order to validate its feasibility. The basin under investigation was divided into 14 sub-basins. The geometric information associated with the sewer network was digitized using GIS (Geological Information System) and imported into an urban sewer network simulation model to generate microbial breakthrough curves at the outlet. A pre-defined amount of Escherichia coli (E. coli), which is an indicator of fecal coliform bacteria, was hypothetically introduced into 56 manholes (four in each sub-basin, chosen at random), and a total of 56 breakthrough curves of E. coli were generated using the simulation model at the outlet. Transport patterns were classified depending upon the location of the injection site (manhole), various known characteristics (peak concentration and time, pipe length, travel time, etc.) extracted from each E. coli breakthrough curve and the layout of sewer network. Using this information, we back-predicted the injection location once an E. coli intrusion was detected at a monitoring site using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs). The results showed that ANNs identified the location of the injection sites with 57% accuracy; ANNs correctly recognized eight out of fourteen expressions with relying on data from a single detection sensor. Increasing the available sensors within the basin significantly improved the accuracy of the simulation results (from 57% to 100%). 
Environmental perverse incentives in coastal monitoring.	It can be argued that the intensity of monitoring of coastal marine environments lags behind the equivalent terrestrial environments. This results in a paucity of long-term time series of key environmental parameters such as turbidity. This lack of management information of the sources and sinks, and causes and impacts of stressors to the coastal marine environment, along with a lack of co-ordination of information collection is compromising the ability of environmental impact assessments of major coastal developments to discriminate between local and remote anthropogenic impacts, and natural or background processes. In particular, the quasi outsourcing of the collection of coastal information can lead to a perverse incentive whereby in many cases nobody is actively or consistently monitoring the coastal marine environment effectively. This is particularly the case with regards to the collection of long-term and whole-of-system scale data. This lack of effective monitoring can act to incentivise poor environmental performance. 
Impact analysis of Xi'an to the water quality of Weihe River]	Based on the water quality inspection results of Weihe River in the Xi'an section and the runoff at the watershed in different representative years, it was found through the pollution load calculated from the mean concentration method that Weihe River's main stream was dominated by point source pollution and non-point source pollution was more serious in tributaries. The input amount of pollutant to Weihe River' main stream from Xi'an which is located within the Xianyang and Lintong section was calculated from the material balance algorithm based on the pollutant concentrations measured in 2009 and 2011. The percentage of the pollution load of Xi'an area on Lower reaches' monitoring section of Lintong was analysed and the impact of Xi'an area on the water quality of Weihe River was quantified. The computational results showed that the upstream of the Xianyang section was the main source of the pollution load of the Lintong section in Weihe River, followed by Xi'an area. More than 40% of TN, COD and NH4+ -N of the Lintong section came from the upstream of the Xianyang section and more than 30% came from Xi'an area, in addition, 53% of TP came from Xi'an area. The non-point source pollution in Xi'an was more serious than in its upstream and downstream areas while point source pollution load accounted for 63% of the total.
Distribution characteristics of dissolved oxygen and its affecting factors in the Pearl River Estuary during the summer of the extremely drought hydrological year 2011]	More and more attention has focused on assessing impacts of extreme hydrologic events on estuarine ecosystem under the background of climate change. Based on a summer cruise conducted in the Pearl River Estuary in 2011 (extreme drought event), we have investigated the spatial distribution of dissolved oxygen (DO) and its relationships to water column stability, nutrient concentrations, and organic matter; besides, the major reason which caused the oxygen depletion was discussed. Under the influence of the extreme drought event, low bottom water dissolved oxygen was apparent in regions characterized by great depths, with an oxygen minimum value of 1.38 mg x L(-1). Statistical analysis shows significant correlations among deltaDO, deltaT, deltaS and deltaPOC. A comparison was conducted to show the mechanisms of oxygen depletion during the summers of 1999, 2009 and 2011, respectively. The result indicates that prolonged residence time of water due to the extremely low discharge and the subsequently decomposition of organic substance are major factors causing the formation of hypoxia during the summer drought in 2011. Despite the changing nutrient and organic matter regime in the Pearl River Estuary, there was no apparent trend in the minimum values of DO over the past 2 decades.
Pollution load and the first flush effect of BOD5 and COD in urban runoff of Wenzhou City]	Four typical rainfalls were monitored in two different research areas of Wenzhou Municipality. Concentrations of BOD5 and COD in six different urban runoffs were measured. In addition the event mean concentration (EMC), M (V) curve and BOD5/COD of pollutant were calculated. The results showed that concentrations of BOD5 and COD in different urban runoffs of Wenzhou ranged from ND to 69.21 mg x L(-1) and ND to 636 mg x L(-1). Concentrations of BOD5 and COD in different urban runoffs were decreasing over time, so it is greatly significant to manage the initial runoff for reducing organic pollution. Judged by EMC of BOD5 and COD in these five rainfalls, concentrations of pollutant in some urban runoffs were out of the integrated wastewater discharge standard. If these runoffs flowed into river, it would cause environmental pressure to the next level receiving water bodies. According to the M (V) curve, the first flush effect of COD in most urban runoffs was common; while the first flush effect of BOD5 was same as that of COD. The result also showed that organic pollution was serious at the beginning of runoff. The underlying surface type could affect the concentration of BOD5 and COD in urban runoff. While the results of BOD5/COD also suggested that biodegradation was considered as one of the effective ways to decrease the pollution load of organics in urban runoff, and the best management plans (BMPs) should be selected for various urban runoff types for the treatment of organic pollution.
Experimental studies on stability of flocs from cadmium pollution emergency treatment]	Taking the flocs from cadmium pollution emergency treatment of Longjiang River in Guangxi province as the research object, the stability of the flocs in the simulated static reservoirs and acidic floods was investigated based on the effects of disturbance and pH on the stability of the flocs. The results indicated that disturbance and pH had great effects on the stability of the flocs, and the concentrations of Cd2+ followed the order of pH 5.0 >> pH 6.0 > pH 7. 0 approximately pH 8.0 > pH 9.0 with the original pH of water. When the original pH of water was 5.0, the concentrations of Cd2+ in samples were 19-58 times higher than the national standard limit, and when the original pH of water were 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 and 9.0, respectively, the concentrations of Cd2+ in samples varied from below to 11 times higher than the national standard limit. The release of cadmium from the flocs was higher in the disturbed water, with the concentrations of Cd2+ in most samples higher than 5.0 microg x L(-1), and the highest was double of the national standard limit. In contrast, there was little release in the simulated static reservoirs, with the concentrations of Cd2+ in all samples below 5.0 microg x L(-1), which was lower than the national standard limit. Therefore, the flocs had good stability in the simulated static reservoirs. But it had poor stability in the simulated acidic floods, with higher release of cadmium, and the concentrations of Cd2+ in samples were 14-25 times higher than the national standard limit. Therefore, the monitoring of cadmium concentrations in the floods should be strengthened in the post project analysis for eco-environmental impact of Longjiang River.
Presence of lead in leaves of Solanum macrocarpon cultivated in Cotonou (Benin): role of poorly composted poultry manure]	This work assesses the impact of the use of chicken manure and irrigation water on the toxicological quality of Solanum macrocarpon, a highly appreciated vegetable. A control site in Glo-Djigbé, gardeners' sites at Houéyiho, Fidjrossè, and Agongbomey were included in the study. Lead has been sought in the environment of S. macrocarpon culture by Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry (AAS). Regarding the content of lead in the droppings, the averages in mg/kg varied between 0.696 and 3.618. The soil of Houéyiho (46.320±0.651mg/kg) was more contaminated with lead than that of the other sites. The irrigation water used in the study sites was slightly contaminated with lead with values ranging between 0.038 and 0.017mg/L. Leaves taken from the control site, Glo-Djigbé were contaminated with lead with a value of 0.936±0.070mg/kg compared to those of Agongbomey, Houéyiho and Fidjrossè. The leaves of S. macrocarpon were contaminated with lead at significantly values higher than those imposed by the FAO (0.1mg/kg). Consumption without precautions could expose people to diseases related to the accumulation of this metal. 
Distribution characteristics and source identification of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofurans, and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls in the waters from River Kanzaki, running through Osaka urban area, Japan.	This is the first to elucidate the distribution and sources of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDFs), and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls in the waters from Kanzaki River, which is one of the most heavily polluted rivers in Japan. The World Health Organization (WHO)-toxic equivalent quantities (TEQs) in waters from the mainstream exceeded the Japanese environmental standard (1.0 pg-TEQ/L). The PCDD/PCDFs were dominated by highly chlorinated DFs, which predominantly contributed to the WHO-TEQs, suggesting that the main causes would be the incineration-related wastes. To find the sources, the dioxin congener concentrations in water and sediment samples from its tributary small waterways were determined. Abnormally high WHO-TEQs were detected in a water (50 pg-TEQ/L) and a sediment sample (41,000 ng-TEQ/kg dry weight) near the industrial solid waste incinerators (ISWIs). The PCDD/PCDF characteristics agreed well with those of the incinerator-related wastes as seen in the mainstream. These facts indicate that the dioxin pollution in the mainstream could be largely related to the industrial wastes from the ISWIs. Here, a TEQ apportionment method was used to understand the contribution of the pyrogenic sources to the WHO-TEQs. The average contribution ratios of the pyrogenic sources to WHO-TEQs were more than 80% for river waters from the mainstream, indicating that the elevated WHO-TEQs in the mainstream had been largely caused by the ISWIs.
Pollutant concentrations and pollution loads in stormwater runoff from different land uses in Chongqing.	To investigate the distribution of pollutant concentrations and pollution loads in stormwater runoff in Chongqing, six typical land use types were selected and studied from August 2009 to September 2011. Statistical analysis on the distribution of pollutant concentrations in all water samples shows that pollutant concentrations fluctuate greatly in rainfall-runoff, and the concentrations of the same pollutant also vary greatly in different rainfall events. In addition, it indicates that the event mean concentrations (EMCs) of total suspended solids (TSS) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) from urban traffic roads (UTR) are significantly higher than those from residential roads (RR), commercial areas (CA), concrete roofs (CR), tile roofs (TRoof), and campus catchment areas (CCA); and the EMCs of total phosphorus (TP) and NH3-N from UTR and CA are 2.35-5 and 3 times of the class-II standard values specified in the Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water (GB 3838-2002). The EMCs of Fe, Pb and Cd are also much higher than the class-III standard values. The analysis of pollution load producing coefficients (PLPC) reveals that the main pollution source of TSS, COD and TP is UTR. The analysis of correlations between rainfall factors and EMCs/PLPC indicates that rainfall duration is correlated with EMCs/PLPC of TSS for TRoof and TP for UTR, while rainfall intensity is correlated with EMCs/PLPC of TP for both CR and CCA. The results of this study provide a reference for better management of non-point source pollution in urban regions.
Abundance of class 1-3 integrons in South Carolina estuarine ecosystems under high and low levels of anthropogenic influence.	The impact of human activity on the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria throughout coastal estuarine ecosystems is not well characterized. It has been suggested that laterally transferred genetic agents, such as integrons, play a role in the spread of resistant bacteria throughout ecosystems. This study compares the distribution of three integron classes throughout a coastal estuarine ecosystem. To determine integron distribution patterns, DNA was extracted from sediment and water collected at seven sites throughout two estuaries with different levels of anthropogenic input and integrons analyzed using quantitative PCR. The data show that while all three integron classes are present, the relative abundance is different, with class 2 integrons significantly elevated in areas of high anthropogenic input and class 1 integrons elevated in areas of low input. Our results provide a foundation for using integron gene distribution as a biomarker of urban impact on antibiotic resistance gene flow and ecosystem health. 
Antibiotic resistance of Shewanella putrefaciens isolated from shellfish collected from the West Sea in Korea.	In this study, we isolated and characterized Shewanella putrefaciens from shellfish harvested from the West Sea in Korea. For the initial isolation of S. putrefaciens, LB agar plates supplemented with ferrous sulfate and sodium thiosulfate were inoculated with shellfish homogenates, incubated for 24h, and then black colonies were selected. Gram-negative and catalase-positive colonies were subsequently confirmed by PCR assays and API 20E kit test system. The Shewanella-specific 16S rRNA and gyrB genes were used to design S. putrefaciens-specific PCR primers. From 6 species of shellfish tested, 24 S. putrefaciens strains were isolated. These 24 isolates had the following profiles of resistance against 16 antibiotics: all the isolates were resistant to cephalothin and vancomycin and 95.8% were resistant to ampicillin. Here, we report the isolation of S. putrefaciens from shellfish and our results point to a new possible route for exposing healthy individuals to S. putrefaciens. 
Synergistic effect of rice husk addition on hydrothermal treatment of sewage sludge: fate and environmental risk of heavy metals.	Hydrothermal treatment (HTT) at 200°C was applied to immobilize heavy metals (HMs) and the effect of rice husk (RH) addition was investigated based on total HMs concentration, fractionation and leaching tests. The results indicated that a synergistic effect of RH addition and HTT could be achieved on reducing the risk of HMs from medium and low risk to no risk. Metals were redistributed and transformed from weakly bounded state to stable state during the HTT process under RH addition. Notably at a RH/sludge ratio of 1/1.75 (d.w.), all the HMs showed no eco-toxicity and no leaching toxicity, with the concentrations of leachable Cr, Ni, Cu and Cd decreased by 17%, 89%, 95% and 93%, respectively. This synergistic effect of RH addition and HTT on the risk reduction of HMs implies that HTT process with RH addition could be a promising and safe disposal technology for sewage sludge treatment in practice. 
Environmental Kuznets curve analysis of the economic development and nonpoint source pollution in the Ningxia Yellow River irrigation districts in China.	This study applies the environmental Kuznets curve to test the relationship between the regional economic growth and the different types of agricultural nonpoint source pollution loads in the Ningxia Yellow River irrigation area by using the Johnes export coefficient method. Results show that the pollution load generated by crop cultivation and livestock-breeding industries in the Ningxia Yellow River irrigation area shows an inverted U-shaped feature; however, this feature is absent in living-sewage pollution load. Crop pollution has shown a decreasing trend since 1997 because of the increased per capita income of farmers. Livestock-breeding pollution load reached its turning point when the per capita income of farmers reached 8386.74 RMB. Therefore, an increase in the per capita income of farmers corresponds to an increase in the livestock-breeding pollution load in the Ningxia Yellow River irrigation area.
Relationships between river water quality and land use type at watershed scale]	Based on the remote sensing images of 54 water quality monitoring stations within the Suzi River watershed, the riparian buffer zones at 6 scales were constructed by ArcGIS, and the 8 landscape indices at landscape and class levels were calculated with FRAGSTATS software. A correlation analysis on the landscape indices and river water quality was made from the viewpoints of landscape space pattern and composition. In the watershed, the landscape pattern in different riparian buffer zones had different effects on the river water quality. When the distance of the buffer zones was less than 300 m, the main landscape types were dry land, construction land, and paddy filed, and their area ratio, patch number, patch density, maximum patch index, maximum shape index, and aggregation index were higher. In these buffer zones, farmlands had higher connectedness, and thus, had greater effects on the river water quality. When the distance of the buffer zones was more than 300 m, forest land had a larger area ratio and a higher connectedness, which would benefit the improvement of river water quality to some extent. In the watershed, farmland and construction land played a key role in affecting the river water quality.
Effects of light on submerged macrophytes in eutrophic water: research progress]	The restoration of submerged macrophytes is the key to remediate eutrophic water and maintain the health of aquatic ecosystem, while light is the main limiting factor. This paper summarized the factors affecting the light extinction in water and the mechanisms of light intensity affecting the physiology of submerged macrophytes, with the focuses on the metabolic mechanisms of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus, the responses of antioxidant enzyme system, and the feedbacks of pigment composition and concentration in the common submerged macrophytes under low light stress. Several engineering techniques applied in the ecological restoration of submerged macrophytes were presented, and the framework of the restoration of submerged macrophytes in eutrophic water was proposed. Some problems in current research and several suggestions on future research were addressed, which could help the related research and engineering practices.
Caged mudsnail Potamopyrgus antipodarum (Gray) as an integrated field biomonitoring tool: exposure assessment and reprotoxic effects of water column contamination.	This study highlights the usefulness of gastropods for water quality monitoring. Gastropods were caged upstream and downstream of an effluent discharge. Exposure was assessed by measurement of organic contaminants in water. Contamination of the Potamopyrgus antipodarum mudsnail was also measured using innovative techniques at the end of the 42 days of exposure. Biological effects were measured at the individual level (growth, reproduction) and subindividual level (energy reserves, vitellin-like proteins, steroid levels, expression of genes involved in estrogen signaling pathways), thus providing a better understanding of reprotoxic effects. The effluent was mainly contaminated by pharmaceutical compounds, as was the mudsnail. The highest concentrations were measured for oxazepam and were higher than 2 mg/kg downstream of the effluent discharge. Alkylphenols, bisphenol A, and vertebrate-like sex-steroid hormones were also bioaccumulated by the mudsnail downstream of the effluent. The combined use of water and snail contamination provided a complete exposure assessment. Exposure was further linked to biological effects. The mudsnail was shown to be a better adapted species for in situ exposures than Valvata piscinalis. Reproduction was sharply decreased after 6 weeks of exposure in the mudsnail. Feeding issues were excluded, confirming the toxic origin. These effects were related to estrogen signaling pathways using genomic analysis. Genes coding for proteins involved in nongenomic signaling pathways were inhibited, and those of genomic pathway repressors were induced. These results suggest that the chemical contamination due to the effluent discharge altered steroid control of reproduction and blocked the transition between oocyte and unshelled embryo, resulting in a drastic decrease of embryo production, while survival was not affected. 
Source identification of high glyme concentrations in the Oder River.	The objective of the following study was to identify the source of high concentrations of glycol diethers (diglyme, triglyme, and tetraglyme) in the Oder River. Altogether four sampling campaigns were conducted and over 50 surface samples collected. During the first two samplings of the Oder River in the Oderbruch region (km 626-690), glymes were detected at concentrations reaching 0.065 μg L(-1) (diglyme), 0.54 μg L(-1) (triglyme) and 1.7 μg L(-1) (tetraglyme). The subsequent sampling of the Oder River, from the area close to the source to the Poland-Germany border (about 500 km) helped to identify the possible area of the dominating glyme entry into the river between km 310 and km 331. During that sampling, the maximum concentration of triglyme was 0.46 μg L(-1) and tetraglyme 2.2 μg L(-1); diglyme was not detected. The final sampling focused on the previously identified area of glyme entry, as well as on tributaries of the Oder River. Samples from Czarna Woda stream and Kaczawa River contained even higher concentrations of diglyme, triglyme, and tetraglyme, reaching 5.2 μg L(-1), 13 μg L(-1) and 81 μg L(-1), respectively. Finally, three water samples were analyzed from a wastewater treatment plant receiving influents from a Copper Smelter and Refinery; diglyme, triglyme, and tetraglyme were present at a maximum concentration of 1700 μg L(-1), 13,000 μg L(-1), and 190,000 μg L(-1), respectively. Further research helped to identify the source of glymes in the wastewater. The gas desulfurization process Solinox uses a mixture of glymes (Genosorb(®)1900) as a physical absorption medium to remove sulfur dioxide from off-gases from the power plant. The wastewater generated from the process and from the maintenance of the equipment is initially directed to the wastewater treatment plant where it undergoes mechanical and chemical treatment processes before being discharged to the tributaries of the Oder River. Although monoglyme was also analyzed, it was not detected in any of the water samples. 
Deoxygenation of the Baltic Sea during the last century.	Deoxygenation is a global problem in coastal and open regions of the ocean, and has led to expanding areas of oxygen minimum zones and coastal hypoxia. The recent expansion of hypoxia in coastal ecosystems has been primarily attributed to global warming and enhanced nutrient input from land and atmosphere. The largest anthropogenically induced hypoxic area in the world is the Baltic Sea, where the relative importance of physical forcing versus eutrophication is still debated. We have analyzed water column oxygen and salinity profiles to reconstruct oxygen and stratification conditions over the last 115 y and compare the influence of both climate and anthropogenic forcing on hypoxia. We report a 10-fold increase of hypoxia in the Baltic Sea and show that this is primarily linked to increased inputs of nutrients from land, although increased respiration from higher temperatures during the last two decades has contributed to worsening oxygen conditions. Although shifts in climate and physical circulation are important factors modulating the extent of hypoxia, further nutrient reductions in the Baltic Sea will be necessary to reduce the ecosystems impacts of deoxygenation. 
Microbial contamination detection in water resources: interest of current optical methods, trends and needs in the context of climate change.	Microbial pollution in aquatic environments is one of the crucial issues with regard to the sanitary state of water bodies used for drinking water supply, recreational activities and harvesting seafood due to a potential contamination by pathogenic bacteria, protozoa or viruses. To address this risk, microbial contamination monitoring is usually assessed by turbidity measurements performed at drinking water plants. Some recent studies have shown significant correlations of microbial contamination with the risk of endemic gastroenteresis. However the relevance of turbidimetry may be limited since the presence of colloids in water creates interferences with the nephelometric response. Thus there is a need for a more relevant, simple and fast indicator for microbial contamination detection in water, especially in the perspective of climate change with the increase of heavy rainfall events. This review focuses on the one hand on sources, fate and behavior of microorganisms in water and factors influencing pathogens' presence, transportation and mobilization, and on the second hand, on the existing optical methods used for monitoring microbiological risks. Finally, this paper proposes new ways of research. 
Bacteriophages active against Bacteroides fragilis in sewage-polluted waters.	Twelve strains of different Bacteroides species were tested for their efficiency of detection of bacteriophages from sewage. The host range of several isolated phages was investigated. The results indicated that there was a high degree of strain specificity. Then, by using Bacteroides fragilis HSP 40 as the host, which proved to be the most efficient for the detection of phages, feces from humans and several animal species and raw sewage, river water, water from lagoons, seawater, groundwater, and sediments were tested for the presence of bacteriophages that were active against B. fragilis HSP 40. Phages were detected in feces of 10% of the human fecal samples tested and was never detected in feces of the other animal species studied. Moreover, bacteriophages were always recovered from sewage and sewage-polluted samples of waters and sediments, but not from nonpolluted samples. The titers recovered were dependent on the degree of pollution in analyzed waters and sediments.
Correlation between the intensity of spontaneous bacteriolysis and bacterial pollution in superficial waters]	A study on the determination of the intensity of spontaneous bacteriolysis in different samples of water from the hydrographic basin of Lorraine, has led us to propose a new way of expressing the spontaneous bacteriolytic power: PBSG. Its utilization has permitted us to establish correlations between the intensity of spontaneous bacteriolytic power and the degree of bacteriological pollution found in different places in the two rivers, the Moselle and the Meurthe. A very strong correlation has been shown between the rate of global spontaneous bacteriolysis after 6 days and the number of coliforms in the water.
Chemical wastes in the sea: new forms of marine pollution.	Drums containing chemical wastes have been found in and along the North Sea. The wastes were analyzed and were found to include lower chlorinated aliphatic compounds, vinyl esters, chlorinated aromatic amines and nitrocompounds, and the insecticide endosulfan. Because dropping these drums into the sea endangers the environment and results in damage to fishing operations, measures should be taken to stop this practice.
DDT in the biosphere: where does it go?	The worldwide pattern of movement of DDT residues appears to be from the land through the atmosphere into the oceans and into the oceanic abyss. Calculations based on the fragmentary data available on. rates of movement and sizes of various pools of DDT residues lead to the conclusion that concentrations in the atmosphere and in the mixed layer of the oceans lag by only a few years behind the amounts of DDT used annually throughout the world. A model suggests that maximum concentrations of DDT residues occurred in air in 1966 and will occur in the mixed layer of the oceans in 1971. The biota probably contains in total less than 1/30 of 1 year's production of DDT during the mid-1960's, a very small amount in proportion to the total potentially available. The reason for the biota's failure to absorb larger quantities and to be affected much more severely is unclear. The analysis suggests that mere good fortune has protected man and the rest of the biota from much higher concentrations, thus emphasizing the need to determine the details of the movement of DDT residues and other toxins through the biosphere and to move swiftly to bring world use of such toxins under rational control based on firm knowledge of local and worldwide cycles and hazards.
Fertilizer nitrogen: contribution to nitrate in surface water in a corn belt watershed.	Measurements of nitrate concentration and relative enrichment in nitrogen-15 were made on samples of the surface waters of a typical Illinois corn belt watershed and the effluent of the subterranean tiles that drain the cropped land in the region. From these measurements, we estimate that at the time of peak nitrate concentration in the spring of 1970 a minimum of 55 to 60 percent of the nitrogen found as nitrate in the surface waters of this watershed originated from fertilizer nitrogen
Bio-assays for microchemical environmental contaminants, with special reference to water supplies.	A solution of the problem of environmental contamination must be based on accurate measurement of the extent of the contamination and of the resulting hazards. This paper reviews the methods for the estimation of microchemical contaminants in water with the aid of living organisms. The methods are grouped according to the nature of the response of the organism to the contaminant-namely, acute response (usually death), behavioural change, physiological change, biochemical and histochemical change, ecological change, embryological and regenerational change, growth change, histological change and perception by man or aquatic organisms. Finally, the following problems are discussed: selection of appropriate tests and standardization, the dangers of sequential concentration and the need for multi-parametric assays (assays involving several responses of a single organism, or responses of several organisms) for complete characterization of the effects of a contaminant on the environment.
Concentration of viruses from sewage by adsorption on millipore membranes.	The authors describe a relatively simple membrane-adsorption method for the efficient concentration of viruses from sewage. Sewage, first freed of bacteria by filtration through membranes under conditions that permit virus to pass freely, is then treated with anion resins to remove organic components that adsorb to Millipore membranes and prevent virus adsorption. The salt concentration of the resin filtrates is increased with MgCl(2) to enhance virus adsorption to membranes. The sewage is next adsorbed to a Millipore membrane, from which virus is readily recovered by homogenization in small fluid volumes.The method was tested in Houston, Texas, for 7 months of 1966, during which period 2795 isolates were made from 10 concentrates of 1-US-gallon (3.78-litre) samples and only 4 from unconcentrated sewage. The isolates included types 2 and 3 poliovirus, 9 echovirus types and 2 coxsackieviruses.Examination of these type 2 poliovirus strains isolated over a 4-month period showed that 13 of 19 had d(+) markers (although none was T(+)), indicating either that the vaccine strain had reverted in the d marker, or that wild strains were circulating in the population in spite of the absence of clinical disease.
Viral pollution of some artificial reservoirs in Romania.	Five reservoirs were investigated for the presence of enteroviruses by using simultaneously two methods for concentration (PE60 and yeast cells) and two techniques for isolation (inoculation into suckling mice and into cell cultures). The average rate of virus positive samples was lower in reservoir water than in the water of the adjoined rivers. The paper discusses the possibilities of viral self-purification in reservoir water and the advantages of its use for drinking purposes after adequate treatment.
Enterobacteriaceae and other gram negative bacteria in the water of lakes used as open air baths around the city of Bratislava.	During the bathing period of 1981 (June to September), and before it (September 1980 to May 1981), we monthly collected, and analysed, samples of water from a series of lakes used as recreational bathing area by inhabitants of the southern part of the City of Bratislava. We isolated and determined biochemical properties of altogether 241 strains of gram negative bacteria belonging mostly to Enterobacteriaceae and to so-called non-fermenters, with special reference to deviations in results of individual tests used for their taxonomical identification and classification. We attempted to determine also the significance of individual biochemical tests of bacterial strains from water samples, as well as the general evaluation of water quality on basis of hygienic criteria set up for the suitability of individual lakes for recreational bathing, to analyse the causes of water contamination, and to evaluate bacterial strains from the hygienic and epidemiological point of view. The qualitative and quantitative incidence of individual bacterial biotypes indicate a continuous contamination of natural baths with fecal waste containing microorganisms from healthy as well as sick persons. As a consequence, the free bathing of the City population in natural lakes studied represents a potential sanitary risk for the persons concerned.
Relationship between the occurrence of coliphages and E. coli in Danish marine bathing areas.	During 2 bathing seasons, 1978 and 1979, water samples were collected with intervals of 2 weeks from 17 marine bathing areas situated on the coast of the island of Fyn. Quantitative examinations for coliphages and fecal coliforms were carried out. Coliphages were present in approximately 50% of the samples. 75% of the positive samples contained less than or equal to 10 coliphages per 100 ml. 6 samples were found with greater than 100 coliphages per 100 ml. A positive correlation between coliphage and fecal coliform concentrations was demonstrated. The ratios of fecal coliforms to coliphages varied only little between individual sampling stations. The mean ratio was 1.9 and 2.0 for the 2 sampling periods. The mean concentration of fecal coliforms was gradually increasing from 2.4/100 ml in May to 7.2/100 ml in September. Conversely the coliphage concentrations were quite uniform during the bathing seasons. As a result of those 2 trends, the fecal coliform/coliphages ratio increased during the seasons from 0.86 to 3.13. Finally, the potential value of coliphages as an indicator of pathogenic microorganisms in marine bathing areas is discussed.
The relationship between three potential pathogens and pollution indicator organisms in Nova Scotian coastal waters.	Fifteen stations, in two estuaries, along the Northumberland Strait of Nova Scotia were examined between June and September 1981 for a relationship between the concentrations of commonly monitored fecal indicator bacteria and the potential pathogens Candida albicans, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Vibrio parahaemolyticus. Increased densities of these three organisms were usually associated with high densities of indicator bacteria. Whereas C. albicans and P. aeruginosa occur in human fecal wastes, V. parahaemolyticus is indigenous to the marine environment and positively responds to elevated nutrient levels in sewage. There is also some evidence that these bacteria survive as long or longer in marine waters than the common indicator bacteria. While membrane-filtration techniques for the enumeration of C. albicans and P. aeruginosa proved satisfactory, a V. parahaemolyticus membrane-filtration method lacked specificity and was supplemented by a most-probable-number method. In marine recreational and shellfish waters, these three organisms could complement fecal coliforms and fecal streptococci as indicators of human fecal contamination.
Preliminary microbiological findings in evaluation of pollution from Darsena petroli]	The Concentration Factors (F.C.) of Coliforms, Enterococci, and Coliphages evaluated in Ciona intestinalis from Darsena Petroli are directly proportional to the relative residence-times into the sea water, stated as T90.
Current criteria for hygienic evaluation of the quality of drinking water]	Project of new sanitary rules on drinking water quality is given. Comparative assessment of Russian and International standards of chemicals in water is presented. Rules will be valid from 1995.
Sump bay fever: inhalational fever associated with a biologically contaminated water aerosol.	To investigate the clinical, serological, and environmental features of a work related inhalational fever associated with exposure to an aerosol generated from a biologically contaminated 130,000 gallon water pool in a building used for testing scientific equipment.
The freshwater river crab, Potamonautes warreni, as a bioaccumulative indicator of iron and manganese pollution in two aquatic systems.	The aim of this study was to determine the potential use of the freshwater river crab, Potamonautes warreni, as a bioaccumulative indicator of iron and manganese pollution in aquatic ecosystems. Water and sediment analysis of the two study sites (Germiston Lake and Potchefstroom Dam) revealed that while levels of manganese were higher in Germiston Lake, iron concentrations were higher in Potchefstroom Dam. Metal analysis of P. warreni revealed that while the crabs from Potchefstroom Dam contained slightly higher iron levels than those from Germiston Lake, manganese concentrations in P. warreni from the latter site were significantly higher than those in the crabs from the former site. Iron and manganese levels in these organisms were influenced by the size, mass, and sex of the crabs on occasion, but these relationships were not always consistent at both of the sites. The results of this study clearly indicate that the ultimate levels of iron and manganese attained in P. warreni do vary depending on the site from which animals are collected. From this, it is suggested that these crustaceans be incorporated into biomonitoring protocols, particularly in areas that are subjected to elevated metal levels in the environment
A simple modelling approach for water quality: the example of an estuarine impoundment.	With the increasing development of water quality standards for all forms of water bodies and all forms of their uses, there is a greater need for models that can predict water quality in relation to these standards. This paper proposes an empirical method based on logistic regression techniques that deliver probabilities that given quality standards are met (i.e. water above or below the given standard). This technique is applied to data from a saline intrusion barrage (River Wansbeck, Northumberland, England) to predict low water quality events on the basis of UK water standards. The approach accurately classifies the overwhelming majority of pollution events that are caused by processes internal to the system. Misclassification can be ascribed to external processes, such as combined sewer outfalls. The general applicability of this method is compared to physically-based models.
