Chronic poisoning by copper in tap water: I. Copper intoxications with predominantly gastointestinal symptoms.	Copper can induce acute and chronic intoxications in humans. Copper in tap water has caused a series of severe systemic diseases in Germany in recent years (copper induced liver cirrhosis). Besides cirrhosis, another type of disease with predominantly gastrointestinal symptoms has occurred which likewise appeared to be induced by copper in tap water. - In a retrospective investigation we looked for additional indications and proof that chronic copper poisoning has been the cause of the observed gastrointestinal diseases. All patients suffering from this type of disease had copper plumbing in their houses. - The patients (children and adults) suffered from nausea, vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea. In the group of infants, one refused formula milk (prepared with tap water) and the others suffered from persistent restlessness, unexplainable screaming (especially at night) and/or long lasting diaper rash. - We accept the diagnosis of chronic copper intoxication as the cause of the gastrointestinal symptoms when at least one of the following criteria were fulfilled: 1. first manifestation, remission and relapse of the disease depend on intake and a non-intake of water containing copper, respectively. 2. hypercupric state of the patients (i.e. pathological high concentrations of the non-ceruloplasmin-bound copper in serum and/or elevated copper levels in urine) 3. signs of systemic copper intoxication in the same patient 4. signs of systemic copper intoxication or hypercupric states in members of the patient s family or in his neighbourhood (non-relatives) - We found that the disease can even be caused by copper concentrations below the allowed concentration given by the German Guidelines for Drinking Water (Trinkwasserverordnung). - The data prove that copper in drinking water can cause gastrointestinal diseases and not only the better known systemic diseases (i.e. copper induced liver cirrhosis). Copper poisoning must be considered as a possible cause of chronic gastrointestinal diseases in those countries in which copper plumbing is common.
Pathomorphology of the liver in exogenic infantile copper intoxication in Germany.	Pathomorphology of the liver has been reviewed in twelve German infants with chronic exogenic copper intoxication. Eight cases suffered from florid Indian childhood cirrhosis. Seven of these children died because of liver failure. One child received liver transplantation. In contrast, four children with a stable clinical course had a complete micronodular cirrhosis with only slight developed features of liver cell damage and stable clinical course. The copper content varied between 541 microg/g dry weight (norm <59 microg/g) and 698 microg/g fresh weight (norm <5 microg/g). There was no significant difference in the copper content between the children with florid Indian childhood cirrhosis and those with micronodular cirrhosis. The results show that there exists a spectrum of pathomorphological alterations in exogenic infantile copper disease correlating with the clinical outcome in contrast to the copper content of the liver. Copper intoxication of the liver should be of diagnostic concern in any unclear case of micronodular cirrhosis in early infancy.
Kinetic analysis of simultaneous 2,4-dinitrotoluene (DNT) and 2, 6-DNT biodegradation in an aerobic fluidized-bed biofilm reactor.	We previously reported on the mineralization of 2,4-dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT) and 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6-DNT) in an aerobic fluidized-bed bioreactor (FBBR) (Lendenmann et al. 1998 Environ Sci Technol 32:82-87). The current study examines the kinetics of 2, 4-DNT and 2,6-DNT mineralization at increasing loading rates in the FBBR with the goal of obtaining system-independent kinetic parameters. At each steady state, the FBBR was subjected to a set of transient load experiments in which substrate flux in the biofilm and bulk substrate concentrations were measured. The pseudo-steady-state data were used to estimate the biokinetic parameters for 2,4-DNT and 2,6-DNT removal using a mechanistic mathematical biofilm model and a routine that minimized the sum of the squared residuals (RSS). Estimated kinetic parameters varied slightly for each steady-state; retrieved parameters for qm were 0. 83 to 0.98 g DNT/g XCOD d for 2,4-DNT removal and 0.14 to 0.33 g DNT/g XCOD d for 2,6-DNT removal. Ks values for 2,4-DNT removal (0. 029 to 0.36 g DNT/m3) were consistently lower than Ks values for 2, 6-DNT removal (0.21 to 0.84 g DNT/m3). A new approach was introduced to estimate the fundamental biofilm kinetic parameter S*b,min from steady-state performance information. Values of S*b,min indicated that the FBBR performance was limited by growth potential. Adequate performance of the examined FBBR technology at higher loading rates will depend on an improvement in the growth potential. The obtained kinetic parameters, qm, Ks, and S*b,min, can be used to aid in the design of aerobic FBBRs treating waters containing DNT mixtures.
Experimental studies on lead accumulation in the eel-specific endoparasites Anguillicola crassus (Nematoda) and Paratenuisentis ambiguus (Acanthocephala) as compared with their host, Anguilla anguilla.	The effect of salinity and the mode of application (oral versus aqueous) on the lead accumulation in different tissues of the fish host eel (Anguilla anguilla) and its parasites Anguillicola crassus (Nematoda) and Paratenuisentis ambiguus (Acanthocephala) was investigated. Waterborne as well as dietary lead exposure caused an increase in the metal levels of different eel tissues and the parasites. The mode of lead application had a significant influence on the distribution of lead in the fish tissues. No significant difference on the lead concentration due to water salinity was found for the fish tissues. Among the analyzed tissues and helminths, the intestinal acanthocephalan P. ambiguus contained the significantly highest amounts of lead, which were affected by neither the mode of application nor the water salinity. In contrast, the lead level of the nematode A. crassus dwelling in the swim bladder of eels was even below the levels detected for host liver, intestine, and bile. Thus, depending on the mode of lead application, the resulting metal concentrations were approximately 20 to 2,000 times higher in P. ambiguus than in A. crassus. These differences may be due to the different microhabitats and nutrient uptake mechanisms of both parasite species. This study presents important new facts for the use of intestinal fish parasites as biological indicators for water quality, not only in freshwater, but also in marine and estuarine ecosystems. The combination of the results obtained from the host and the parasites could reveal a more detailed tool to ascertain the source of an environmental contamination than a study based on a single species.http://link.springer-ny. com/link/service/journals/00244/bibs/37n2p190.html
Bioaccumulation and subchronic physiological effects of waterborne iron overload on whitefish exposed in humic and nonhumic water.	One-year-old whitefish, Coregonus lavaretus, were exposed to three types of iron-rich water, two dilutions for each, in a subchronic (30-day) experiment. In natural iron-rich humic water, both the bioaccumulation and physiological effects of iron exposure were negligible. In humic-free water with high amount of additional inorganic iron (nominally 8 mg Fe/L), Fe accumulated in gills, liver, and gut. This accumulation was accompanied by decreased glycogen phosphorylase activities and microsomal EROD activity in the liver as well as decreased plasma sodium and potassium concentrations. The third group of whitefish were exposed by adding inorganic iron (nominally 2 and 8 mg Fe/L) to natural iron-rich humic water. Fish exposed to the higher concentration of waterborne iron exhibited a physiological stress response as indicated by increased blood lactate and plasma cortisol concentrations. Additionally, plasma 17beta-estradiol concentration was increased in fish kept in both water conditions with high amounts of additional iron. The observed dissimilarities in bioaccumulation and in physiological responses were not connected with the measured amounts of total or dissolved iron in water, but to the amount of additional iron in tanks and to the different water conditions with or without organic matter. The dissimilarity of physiological responses, which was also shown by statistical classification through multivariate discriminant analysis, points to the necessity of variable and complementary physiological endpoints in describing the effects of similar kind of exposures.http://link.springer-ny. com/link/service/journals/00244/bibs/37n2p196.html
Screening of marine microalgae for bioremediation of cadmium-polluted seawater.	Twenty four strains out of 191 marine microalgal strains exhibited cadmium (Cd) resistance. They were tested for their Cd removal ability in growth media containing 50 microM Cd. Six strains out of 19 green algae and one out of five cyanobacteria removed more than 10% of total Cd from the medium. The marine green alga Chlorella sp. NKG16014 showed the highest removal of Cd 48.7% of total. Cd removal by NKG16014 was further quantitatively evaluated by measuring the amount of cell adsorption and intracellular accumulation. After 12 days incubation, 67% of the removed Cd was accumulated intracellularly and 25% of the Cd removed was adsorbed on the algal cell surface. The maximum Cd adsorption (qmax) was estimated to be 37.0 mg Cd (g dry cells)-1 using the Langmuir sorption model. The Cd removal by freeze-dried NKG16014 cells was also determined. Cd was more quickly adsorbed by dried cells than that by living cells, with a qmax of 91.0 mg Cd (g dry cells)-1.
Marine protozoa produce organic matter with a high affinity for PCBs during grazing.	Processes influencing organic carbon distribution and composition can control the speciation of organic contaminants such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and ultimately determine their residence time in aquatic environments. Protozoan grazers are active in the remineralization and recycling of organic material both in the water column and at the sediment-water interface. Thus, they influence the quality and quantity of potential PCB binding substrates in the suspended and dissolved phases of aqueous systems. In this study, common headspace systems were used to compare the chlorobiphenyl-binding affinity of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in protozoan and bacterial culture filtrates (<0.2 microm) relative to DOC in a seawater control. Culture filtrates from three marine protozoan species were compared-Uronema sp., Cafeteria sp., and Paraphysomonas imperforata. Each protozoan species was fed the same bacterial prey, Halomonas halodurans, which was also used as a bacterial control. Affinities of culture DOC for [14C]3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (IUPAC 77) were normalized to DOC and surfactant concentrations. Values of DOC equilibrium partition coefficients (K(DOC)) ranged from 10(4.6) in seawater (Vineyard Sound, MA) to 10(5.4) and 10(5.5) in protist cultures, indicating that grazer-modified DOC was a better sorbent for PCBs than DOC in bacterial or seawater controls.
Volatilization of mercury by immobilized bacteria (Klebsiella pneumoniae) in different support by using fluidized bed bioreactor.	Klebsiella pneumoniae, a mercury-resistant bacterial strain able to reduce ionic mercury to metallic mercury, was isolated from wastewater of Casablanca. This strain exhibits high minimal inhibition concentrations for heavy metals such as mercury 2400 microM, lead 8000 microM, silver 2400 microM, and cadmium 1000 microM. This bacterium was immobilized in alginate, polyacrylamide, vermiculite, and cooper beech and was used for removing mercury from a synthetic water polluted by mercury by using a fluidized bead bioreactor. Immobilized bacterial cells of Klebsiella pneumoniae could effectively volatilize mercury and detoxify mercury compounds. Moreover, the efficiency of mercury volatilization was much greater than with the native cells. The highest cleanup and volatilization rates were obtained when Klebsiella pneumoniae was entrapped in alginate beads, with a cleanup rate of 100% and a volatilization rate of 89%. Immobilized cells in alginate continuously volatilized mercury even after 10 days without loss of activity.
Enhanced biodegradation of methylhydrazine and hydrazine contaminated NASA wastewater in fixed-film bioreactor.	The aerobic biodegradation of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) wastewater that contains mixtures of highly concentrated methylhydrazine/hydrazine, citric acid and their reaction product was studied on a laboratory-scale fixed film trickle-bed reactor. The degrading organisms, Achromobacter sp., Rhodococcus B30 and Rhodococcus J10, were immobilized on coarse sand grains used as support-media in the columns. Under continuous flow operation, Rhodococcus sp. degraded the methylhydrazine content of the wastewater from a concentration of 10 to 2.5 mg/mL within 12 days and the hydrazine from approximately 0.8 to 0.1 mg/mL in 7 days. The Achromobacter sp. was equally efficient in degrading the organics present in the wastewater, reducing the concentration of the methylhydrazine from 10 to approximately 5 mg/mL within 12 days and that of the hydrazine from approximately 0.8 to 0.2 mg/mL in 7 days. The pseudo first-order rate constants of 0.137 day(-1) and 0.232 day(-1) were obtained for the removal of methylhydrazine and hydrazine, respectively, in wastewater in the reactor column. In the batch cultures, rate constants for the degradation were 0.046 and 0.079 day(-1) for methylhydrazine and hydrazine respectively. These results demonstrate that the continuous flow bioreactor afford greater degradation efficiencies than those obtained when the wastewater was incubated with the microbes in growth-limited batch experiments. They also show that wastewater containing hydrazine is more amenable to microbial degradation than one that is predominant in methylhydrazine, in spite of the longer lag period observed for hydrazine containing wastewater. The influence of substrate concentration and recycle rate on the degradation efficiency is reported. The major advantages of the trickle-bed reactor over the batch system include very high substrate volumetric rate of turnover, higher rates of degradation and tolerance of the 100% concentrated NASA wastewater. The results of the present laboratory scale study will be of great importance in the design and operation of an industrial immobilized biofilm reactor for the treatment of methylhydrazine and hydrazine contaminated NASA wastewater.
Bioaugmentation of butane-utilizing microorganisms to promote cometabolism of 1,1,1-trichloroethane in groundwater microcosms.	The transformation of 1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCA) in bioaugmented and non-augmented microcosms was evaluated. The microcosms contained groundwater and aquifer materials from a test site at Moffett Field, Sunnyvale, CA. The initial inoculum for bioaugmentation was a butane-utilizing enrichment from the subsurface of the Hanford DOE site. The non-augmented microcosm required 80 days of incubation before butane-utilization was observed while the augmented microcosms required 3 days. Initially the augmented microcosms were effective in transforming 1,1,1-TCA, but their transformation ability decreased after prolonged incubation. The non-augmented microcosms initially showed limited 1,1,1-TCA transformation but improved with time. After 440 days, both the non-augmented and augmented microcosms had similar transformation yields (0.04 mg 1,1,1-TCA/mg butane) and had similar microbial composition (DNA fingerprints). Subsequent microcosms, when bioaugmented with a Hanford enrichment that was repeatedly grown in 100% mineral media, did not effectively grow or transform 1,1,1-TCA under groundwater nutrient conditions. Microcosm tests to study the effect of mineral media on transformation ability were performed with the Hanford enrichment. Microcosms with 50% mineral media in groundwater most effectively utilized butane and transformed 1,1,1-TCA, while microcosms with groundwater only and microcosms with 5% mineral media in groundwater lost their 1,1,1-TCA transformation ability. DNA fingerprinting indicated shifts in the microbial composition with the different mineral media combinations. Successful bioaugmentation was achieved by enriching butane-utilizers from Moffett Field microcosms that were effective in groundwater with no mineral media added. The results suggest that successful in-situ bioaugmentation might be achieved through the addition of enriched cultures that perform well under subsurface nutrient conditions.
Aerobic biotransformation of 4-fluorocinnamic acid to 4-fluorobenzoic acid.	The biotransformation of 4-fluorocinnamic acid (FCA) using non-acclimated industrial activated sludge was investigated. FCA is a common intermediate in organic synthesis, and it is often present in aqueous waste streams. Hence, the biotransformation reactions this compound undergoes when exposed to activated sludge micro-organisms should be understood before waste streams are sent to biological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). FCA biotransformation was monitored using a wide range of analytical techniques. These techniques were used to monitor not only FCA disappearance, but also the formation of degradation products, in order to propose the metabolic pathway. FCA was biotransformed to 4-fluorobenzoic acid via the formation of 4-fluoroacetophenone. The removal of FCA up to 200 mg L(-1) followed first order kinetics. The half-lives for removal of FCA from the test solutions supplied with 200 mg L(-1), 100 mg L(-1), and 50 mg L(-1) were 53, 18, and 5 hours respectively.
Roles of two white-rot basidiomycete fungi in decolorisation and detoxification of olive mill waste water.	A Phanerochaete chrysosporium strain was isolated from Moroccan olive mill waste water (OMW) and its ability to degrade OMW in different culture conditions was investigated and compared to that of Pleurotus ostreatus. The results indicated that Ph. chrysosporium isolate is more efficient than Pl. ostreatus in decolorising and detoxifying OMW in the presence of added nutrients. Ph. chrysosporium is able to remove more than 50% of the colour and phenols from OMW within 6 days of incubation, whereas Pl. ostreatus needs more than 12 days to reach similar results in the same conditions. Many factors affecting the treatment of diluted OMW (20%) by Ph. chrysosporium were studied, including the effects of added nutrients, initial pH, temperature and inoculated biomass. Once the optimisation of 20% OMW biodegradation process had been set up, higher OMW concentrations (50%) were tested. The results show that the fungus is capable of reducing all parameters analysed (colour A395, phenol content and chemical oxygen demand) by at least 60%, after only 9 days of growth.
Biotransformation of p-toluic acid in anoxic estuarine sediments under a CO2 or N2/H2 atmosphere.	The composition of the headspace gas affected the growth dynamics of microbial populations and the biotransformation pattern of p-toluic acid in anoxic estuarine sediments. Under CO2 atmosphere, p-toluic acid was transformed by the sediment microorganisms without a lag period, while under N2/H2 atmosphere, p-toluic acid was transformed after a lag period of 55 days. Under the N2/H2 atmosphere, the methanogen population, following a rapid increase of almost two orders of magnitude, remained at a high level until just before the onset of biotransformation. We hypothesize that during the lag period, the hydrogenotrophic methanogens were removing the H2, a step which is essential before the reaction can be exergonic. Acetogenic bacteria did not initiate decarboxylation as the first step of biotransformation under either atmosphere. Neither the methanogens nor the acetogenic bacteria appeared to be directly involved in the biotransformation of p-toluic acid under either atmosphere. Under the CO2 atmosphere, biotransformation of p-toluic acid involved sulfate-reducing bacteria, while under N2/H2, both sulfate-reducing bacteria and other eubacteria were involved.
Ultimate biodegradation of alkylphenol ethoxylate surfactants and their biodegradation intermediates.	The ultimate biodegradation of the commercial products nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPE9), octylphenol ethoxylates (OPE9), and their biodegradation intermediates, NPE1.5, OPE1.5, NP, and OP, was measured using conventional methods. The extent of biodegradation was also determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of metabolites and measurement of dissolved organic carbon. Optimized pseudo-first order degradation rate constants and half-lives were calculated from these data and from previously published data, using Larson's equation for surfactant degradation kinetics. Ultimate aerobic biodegradation of alkylphenol ethoxylates and their biodegradation intermediates has now been examined using acclimated wastewater treatment plant sludge as the microbial seed, household wastewater treatment systems, and unacclimated fresh water, seawater, and soil. Ultimate biodegradation half-lives ranged from about one to four weeks and provide definitive evidence for the extensive biodegradability of alkyphenol ethoxylates (APE) surfactants and their metabolites and their lack of persistence in the environment.
A biological loss of endosulfan and related chlorinated organic compounds from aqueous systems in the presence and absence of oxygen.	Endosulfan is a cyclodiene organochlorine currently widely used as an insecticide throughout the world. This study reports that the endosulfan isomers can be readily dissipated from aqueous systems at neutral pH in the absence of biological material or chemical catalysts, in the presence or absence of oxygen. The study showed that aldrin, dieldrin, and endosulfan exhibit bi-phasic loss from water in unsealed and butyl rubber sealed vessels. Half-lives are substantially increased for endosulfan I when oxygen is removed from the incubation vessel. The study conditions, where PTFE was used, were such that loss due to volatilization and alkaline chemical hydrolysis was eliminated. Half-lives determined from these data indicate that the parent isomers are much less persistent than the related cyclodienes, aldrin and dieldrin, confirming the findings of previous studies. The major oxidation product of endosulfans I and II, endosulfan sulfate, is less volatile and can persist longer than either of the parent isomers. Endosulfan sulfate was not formed in any of the treatments suggesting that it would not be formed in aerated waters in the absence of microbial activity or strong chemical oxidants. Since endosulfan sulfate is formed in many environments through biological oxidation, and is only slowly degraded (both chemically in sterile media and biologically), it represents a predominant residue of technical grade endosulfan, which finds its way into aerobic and anaerobic aquatic environments. The data obtained contributes to and confirms the existing body of half-life data on endosulfan I and II and its major oxidation product, endosulfan sulfate. The half-life data generated from the current study can be used in models for predicting the loss of chlorinated cyclodiene compounds from aqueous systems. The findings also highlight the importance of critically reviewing half-life data, to determine what the predominant processes are that are acting on the compounds under study.
Effect of non-aqueous phase liquid on biodegradation of PAHs in spilled oil on tidal flat.	Biodegradation rates of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in spilled oil stranded on tidal flats were studied using model reactors to clarify the effects of NAPL on the biodegradation of PAHs in stranded oil on tidal flat with special emphasis on the relationship between dissolution rates of PAHs into water and viscosity of NAPL. Biodegradation of PAHs in NAPL was limited by the dissolution rates of PAHs into water. Biodegradation rate of chrysene was smaller than that for acenaphthene and phenanthrene due to the smaller dissolution rates. Dissolution rates of PAHs in fuel oil C were smaller those in crude oil due to high viscosity of fuel oil C. Therefore, biodegradation rates of PAHs in fuel oil C were smaller than those in crude oil. Biodegradation rates of PAHs in NAPL with slow decrease rate like fuel oil C were slower than those in NAPL with rapid decrease like crude oil. The smaller decrease rate of fuel oil C than crude oil was due to higher viscosity of fuel oil C. Therefore, not only the dissolution rate of PAHs but also the decrease rates of NAPL were important factors for the biodegradation of PAHs.
Combining mixing regimes for optimized anaerobic wastewater treatment.	Operational practice of high-rate anaerobic bioreactors such as upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactors is generally based on maximization of the biomass concentration and, in the case of more than one reactor compartment, operation in parallel. In this article, a modeling approach is used to postulate that the treatment performance of anaerobic bioreactors can be improved by simple operational measures. To achieve minimized effluent soluble substrate concentrations, operation of two reactors in series combined with active exchange of biomass between both reactors is suggested. In this way, substrate concentrations lower than the minimum achievable concentration in a completely mixed reactor can be achieved. It is furthermore suggested that maximized biomass concentrations (and solid retention times [SRTs]) do not necessarily lead to minimized effluent concentrations of organic material. At elevated SRTs, the soluble microbial products resulting from biomass turnover are shown to represent the main fraction of soluble organic material in the effluent of the reactor, limiting treatment efficiency.
Extension of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 with processes of sulfate reduction.	In the present work, the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) for computer simulation of anaerobic processes was extended to the processes of sulfate reduction. The upgrade maintained the structure of ADM1 and included additional blocks describing sulfate-reducing processes (multiple reaction stoichiometry, microbial growth kinetics, conventional material balances for ideally mixed reactor, liquid-gas interactions, and liquid-phase equilibrium chemistry). The extended model was applied to describe a longterm experiment on sulfate reduction in a volatile fatty acid-fed upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactor and was generally able to predict the outcome of competition among acetogenic bacteria, methanogenic archaea, and sulfate- reducing bacteria for these substrates. The computer simulations also showed that when the upward liquid velocity in the reactor exceeds 1 m/d, the structure of the sludge becomes essential owing to bacterial detachment.
Parameter identification of thermophilic anaerobic degradation of valerate.	The considered mathematical model of the decomposition of valerate presents three unknown kinetic parameters, two unknown stoichiometric coefficients, and three unknown initial concentrations for biomass. Applying a structural identifiability study, we concluded that it is necessary to perform simultaneous batch experiments with different initial conditions for estimating these parameters. Four simultaneous batch experiments were conducted at 55 degrees C, characterized by four different initial acetate concentrations. Product inhibition of valerate degradation by acetate was considered. Practical identification was done optimizing the sum of the multiple determination coefficients for all measured state variables and for all experiments simultaneously. The estimated values of kinetic parameters and stoichiometric coefficients were characterized by the parameter correlation matrix, the confidence interval, and the student's t-test at 5% significance level with positive results except for the saturation constant, for which more experiments for improving its identifiability should be conducted. In this article, we discuss kinetic parameter estimation methods.
Dynamic simulation of pH in anaerobic processes.	With the objective of contributing to the buildup of mathematical tools for anaerobic process simulation, an algorithm for the dynamic simulation of pH was developed. The dynamic simulation of the gaseous phase variables was also considered. The pH algorithm was validated for a watery system, obtaining good agreement between predicted and experimental data. The applied methodology provides a differential equation that allows the inclusion of pH as a state variable of the system that can be easily included in a general mathematical model of anaerobic digestion using matrix notation. This methodology also allows a noticeable decrease in computing time in simulations. A dynamic anaerobic digestion model of complex substrates taken from the literature was completed with the developed algorithms, and it was used to predict the response of an anaerobic reactor against overloading and against the presence of pH-dependent inhibitors with satisfactory results.
Sustainable treatment and reuse of diluted pig manure streams in Russia: from laboratory trials to full-scale implementation.	This article summarizes the results obtained during the laboratory and pilot development of integrated biologic and physicochemical treatment and reuse of diluted pig manure streams. The application of a straw filter was an effective means to separate the solid and liquid fractions of raw wastewater and resulted in the removal of a significant part of the dry matter, total nitrogen, and phosphorus (65, 27, and 32%, respectively). From the filtrate generated, 60-80% of the total chemical oxygen demand (COD) was removed in an upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactor operating at 15-30 degrees C. Ammonia was efficiently eliminated (>99%) from the anaerobic effluents using Ural laumantite as an ion exchanger. However, the nitrogen-content of the zeolite was too low to consider this method of ammonia removal economically feasible. The phosphate precipitation block, consisting of stripper of CO2 and fluidized-bed crystallizator, was able to decrease the concentration of soluble phosphate in the anaerobic effluents up to 7-15 mg of phosphate/L. The application of aerobic/anoxic biofilter as a sole polishing step was acceptable from an aesthetic point of view (the effluents were transparent and almost colorless and odorless) and elimination of biochemical oxygen demand (the resting COD was hardly biodegradable). However, the effluent nutrient concentrations (especially nitrogen) were far from the current standards for direct discharge of treated wastewater. We discuss the approaches for further improvement of effluent quality. Finally, we provide an outline of a full-scale system that partially implements the laboratory- and pilotscale results obtained.
Codigestion of manure and organic wastes in centralized biogas plants: status and future trends.	Centralized biogas plants in Denmark codigest mainly manure, together with other organic waste such as industrial organic waste, source sorted household waste, and sewage sludge. Today 22 large-scale centralized biogas plants are in operation in Denmark, and in 2001 they treated approx 1.2 million tons of manure as well as approx 300,000 of organic industrial waste. Besides the centralized biogas plants there are a large number of smaller farm-scale plants. The long-term energy plan objective is a 10-fold increase of the 1998 level of biogas production by the year 2020. This will help to achieve a target of 12-14% of the national energy consumption being provided by renewable energy by the year 2005 and 33% by the year 2030. A major part of this increase is expected to come from new centralized biogas plants. The annual potential for biogas production from biomass resources available in Denmark is estimated to be approx 30 Peta Joule (PJ). Manure comprises about 80% of this potential. Special emphasis has been paid to establishing good sanitation and pathogen reduction of the digested material, to avoid risk of spreading pathogens when applying the digested manure as fertilizer to agricultural soils.
Reducing waste contamination from animal-processing plants by anaerobic thermophilic fermentation and by flesh fly digestion.	There is currently no market in Israel for the large amounts of waste from fish- and poultry-processing plants. Therefore, this waste is incinerated, as part of the measures to prevent the spread of pathogens. Anaerobic methanogenic thermophilic fermentation (AMTF) of wastes from the cattle-slaughtering industry was examined previously, as an effective system to treat pathogenic bacteria, and in this article, we discuss a combined method of digestion by thermophilic anaerobic bacteria and by flesh flies, as a means of waste treatment. The AMTF process was applied to the wastes on a laboratory scale, and digestion by rearing of flesh fly (Phaenicia sericata) and housefly (Musca domestica) larvae on the untreated raw material was done on a small scale and showed remarkable weight conversion to larvae. The yield from degradation of poultry waste by flesh fly was 22.47% (SD = 3.89) and that from fish waste degradation was 35.34% (SD = 12.42), which is significantly higher than that from rearing houseflies on a regular rearing medium. Bacterial contents before and after thermophilic anaerobic digestion, as well as the changes in the chemical composition of the components during the rearing of larvae, were also examined.
Pretreatment of swine wastewater using anaerobic filter.	Efforts were made to assess the efficiency of an anaerobic filter packed with porous floating ceramic media and to identify the optimum operational condition of anaerobic filter as a pretreatment of swine wastewater for the subsequent biological removal of nitrogen and phosphorus. A stepwise decrease in hydraulic retention time (HRT) and an increase in organic loading rate (OLR) were utilized in an anaerobic filter reactor at mesophilic temperature (35 degrees C). The optimum operating condition of the anaerobic filter was found to be at an HRT of 1 d. A soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal efficiency of 62% and a total suspended solids removal efficiency of 39% at an HRT of 1 d were achieved with an OLR of 16.0 kg total COD/(m3.d), respectively. The maximum methane production rate approached 1.70 vol of biogas produced per volume of reactor per day at an HRT of 1 d. It was likely that the effluent COD/total Kjeldahl nitrogen ratio of 22, the COD/total phosphorous ratio of 47, and the high effluent alkalinity >2500 mg/L as CaCO3 of the anaerobic filter operated at an HRT of 1 d was adequate for the subsequent biological removal of nitrogen and phosphorus.
Two-step upflow anaerobic sludge bed system for sewage treatment under subtropical conditions with posttreatment in waste stabilization ponds.	A pilot-scale sewage treatment system consisting of two upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactors followed by five waste stabilization ponds (WSPs) in series was studied under subtropical conditions. The first UASB reactor started up in only 1 mo (stable operation, high chemical oxygen demand [COD] removal efficiency, low volatile fatty acids concentration in the effluent, alkalinity ratio above 0.7, biogas production above 0.1 Nm3/kg of CODremoved). Removal efficiencies up to 90% were obtained in the anaerobic steps at a hydraulic retention time of 6 + 4 h (80% removal in the first step). Fecal coliform removal in the whole system was 99.9999% (99.94% in anaerobic steps and 99.98% in WSPs). COD balances over UASB reactors are provided. A minimum set of data necessary to build COD balances is proposed. Intermittent sludge washout was detected in the reactors with the COD balances. Sludge washout from single-step UASB reactors should be monitored and minimized in order to ensure constant compliance with discharge standards, especially when no posttreatment is provided. The system combined high COD and fecal coliform removal efficiency with an extremely low effluent concentration, complying with discharge standards, and making it an attractive option for sewage treatment in subtropical regions.
Removal of chemical oxygen demand, nitrogen, and heavy metals using a sequenced anaerobic-aerobic treatment of landfill leachates at 10-30 degrees C.	As a first step of treatment of landfill leachates (total chemical oxygen demand [COD]: 1.43-3.81 g/L; total nitrogen: 90-162 mg/L), performance of laboratory upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactors was investigated under mesophilic (30 degrees C), submesophilic (20 degrees C), and psychrophilic (10 degrees C) conditions. Under hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of about 0.3 d, when the average organic loading rates (OLRs) were about 5 g of COD/(L.d), the total COD removal accounted for 81% (on average) with the effluent concentrations close to the anaerobic biodegradability limit (0.25 g of COD/L) for mesophilic and submesophilic regimes. The psychrophilic treatment conducted under an average HRT of 0.34 d and an average OLR of 4.22 g of COD/(L.d) showed a total COD removal of 47%, giving effluents (0.75 g of COD/L) more suitable for subsequent biologic nitrogen removal. All three anaerobic regimes used for leachate treatment were quite efficient for elimination of heavy metals (Fe, Zn, Cu, Pb, Cd) by concomitant precipitation in the form of insoluble sulfides inside the sludge bed. The application of aerobic/ anoxic biofilter as a sole polishing step for psychrophilic anaerobic effluents was acceptable for elimination of biodegradable COD and nitrogen approaching the current standards for direct discharge of treated wastewater.
Anaerobically treated wastewater in agricultural irrigation as an alternative for posttreatment in water-demanding zones.	Agroindustries usually produce high amounts of wastewaters and are frequently located close to agricultural activities. Agricultural use of treated wastewaters therefore represents a unique opportunity to solve the problem of water supply for irrigation and disposal of treated water at the same time. This article is the result of collaborative work with the biggest Chilean pisco- (a distillated drink prepared from Muscatel wine) producing company at present. Experiments were conducted to establish anaerobic treatability of wastewaters and also irrigation properties of treated water. With the purpose of confirming laboratory results, a full-scale anaerobic plant was built, and treated water is being used to irrigate 3000 eucalypti. The results showed, at both laboratory and full scale, that anaerobic treatment is suitable for the treatment of pisco wastewater, and that nutrient content of treated water can be beneficial for plant growth, reducing the need for fertilizers.
Reductive decolorization of a textile reactive dyebath under methanogenic conditions.	The objective of the present study was to assess the biological decolorization of an industrial, spent reactive dyebath and its three dye components (Reactive Blue 19 [RB 19], Reactive Blue 21 [RB 21], and Reactive Red 198 [RR 198]) under methanogenic conditions. Using a mixed, methanogenic culture, batch assays were performed to evaluate the rate and extent of color removal as well as any potential toxic effects. Overall, a high rate and extent of color removal (>10 mg/[L.h] and 88%, respectively) were observed in cultures amended with either RB 19 (an anthraquinone dye) or spent dyebath at an initial dye concentration of 300 mg/L (expressed as RB 19 equivalent) and 30 g/L of NaCl. Inhibition of acidogenesis and, to a larger degree, of methanogenesis resulting in accumulation of volatile fatty acids was observed in both RB 19- and spent dyebath-amended cultures. RB 21 (a phthalocyanine dye) and RR 198 (an azo dye) tested at an initial concentration of 300 mg/L did not result in any significant inhibition of the mixed methanogenic culture. Based on results obtained with cultures amended with RB 19 with and without NaCl, as well as a control culture amended with 30 g/L of NaCl, salt was less inhibitory than either RB 19 or the dyebath. Therefore, the toxic effect of the spent dyebath is at least partially attributed to its major dye component RB 19 and NaCl. Further testing of the effect of RB 19 decolorization products on the methanogenic activity in the absence of NaCl demonstrated that these products are much less inhibitory than the parent dye. Although color removal occurred despite the severe culture inhibition, biological decolorization of full-strength reactive spent dyebaths using methanogenic cultures in a repetitive, closed-loop system is not deemed feasible. For this reason, a fermentative and halotolerant culture was developed and successfully used in our laboratory for the decolorization of industrial reactive dyebaths with 100 g/L of NaCl.
Electron beam pretreatment of sewage sludge before anaerobic digestion.	The pretreatment of waste-activated sludge (WAS) by electron beam irradiation was studied in order to improve anaerobic sludge digestion. The irradiation dose of the electron beam was varied from 0.5 to 10 kGy. Batch and continuous-flow stirred tank reactors (CFSTRs) were operated to evaluate the effect of the electron beam pretreatment on anaerobic sludge digestion. Approximately 30-52% of the total chemical oxygen demand (COD) content of the WAS was solubilized within 24 h after electron beam irradiation. A large quantity of soluble COD, protein, and carbohydrates leached out from cell ruptures caused by the electron beam irradiation. Volatile fatty acids production from the irradiated sludge was approx 90% higher than that of the unirradiated sludge. The degradation of irradiated sewage sludge was described by two distinct first-order decay rates (k1 and k2). Most initial decay reaction accelerated within 10 d, with an average k1 of 0.06/d for sewage sludge irradiated at all dosages. The mean values for the long-term batch first-order decay coefficient (k2) were 0.025/d for irradiated sewage sludge and 0.007/d for unirradiated sludge. Volatile solids removal efficiency of the control reactor fed with unirradiated sewage sludge at a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 20 d was almost the same as that of the CFSTRs fed with irradiated sludge at an HRT of 10 d. Therefore, disintegration of sewage sludge cells using electron beam pretreatment could reduce the reactor solid retention time by half.
Anaerobic waste stabilization ponds: a low-cost contribution to a sustainable wastewater reuse cycle.	Waste stabilization ponds (WSP) have been used extensively all over Europe over the last 50 yr for the treatment of municipal and industrial wastewaters. Models presented in manuals should be used only for guidance, and local experience from pilot and full-scale plants of a particular pond type is extremely valuable. Anaerobic WSP are single-stage, continuous- flow, anaerobic reactors operating at ambient temperatures and low volumetric organic loading as a pretreatment method. This article presents a literature review on the different available operational parameters of anaerobic ponds and examples from full-scale plant performance worldwide. On a wastewater management scheme, involving reuse for agriculture, the zero-energy demand of a waste stabilization pond series for the effective removal of organic and microbiological loading under existing legislation and guidelines will remain a valuable tool for sustainable development.
Combined biologic (anaerobic-aerobic) and chemical treatment of starch industry wastewater.	A combined biologic and chemical treatment of high-strength (total chemical oxygen demand [CODtot] up to 20 g/L), strong nitrogenous (total N up to 1 g/L), and phosphoric (total P up to 0.4 g/L) starch industry wastewater was investigated at laboratory-scale level. As a principal step for COD elimination, upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactor performance was investigated at 30 degrees C. Under hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of about 1 d, when the organic loading rates were higher than 15 g of COD/(L.d), the CODtot removal varied between 77 and 93%, giving effluents with a COD/N ratio of 4-5:1, approaching the requirements of subsequent denitrification. The activated sludge reactor operating in aerobic-anoxic regime (HRT of about 4 d, duration of aerobic and anoxic phases of 30 min each) was able to remove up to 90% of total nitrogen and up to 64% of COD tot from the anaerobic effluents under 17-20 degrees C. The coagulation experiments with Fe(III) showed that 1.4 mg of resting hardly biodegradable COD and 0.5 mg of phosphate (as P) could be removed from the aerobic effluents by each milligram of iron added.
Enhanced sorption of naphthalene into bentonites in water containing myristylpyridinium bromide and its mechanism]	The influence of myristylpyridinium bromide (MPB) on sorption behavior of naphthalene into two bentonites in aqueous solution and its mechanism were investigated. The apparent sorption coefficients (Kd*) of naphthalene on two bentonites with surfactant was dependent on MPB equilibrium concentration (X). When X was less than 1/10CMC, the Kd* value increased rapidly with increasing MPB primary concentration (X0) that was mainly contributed to increasing the organic carbon contents (foc) of bentonites for partitioning naphthalene. The Kd* value decreased slowly with increasing X0 when X was intermediate 1/10CMC and 1 CMC, because the adding MPB increased foc for sorption naphthalene was less than MPB monomer for enhancement solubility of naphthalene. Then The Kd* value decreased sharply with increasing X0 when X was larger than 1 CMC, which resulted from that the addition of MPB only increased micelle concentration for enhancement solubility of naphthalene. The mechanism was explained by apparent partition coefficient normalized by foc(i. e. Koc*) for the first time. The relationship of 1/Koc* and X was linear. The value of Koc, Kmn and Kmc can be calculated from the intercept and slope of the linear, which will provide theoretical gist for organobentonite applied on organic contaminant remediation.
Toxicity of fluoranthene and its biodegradation metabolites to aquatic organisms.	The toxicity of nine stable products of the biodegradation of fluoranthene with the pure bacterial strain Pasteurella sp. IFA was studied. For their quantification, an improved analytical procedure with two-step liquid-liquid extraction, derivatisation and gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric detection was used. Growth inhibition and immobility tests for fluoranthene and its metabolites were carried out using algae (Scenedesmus subspicatus), bacteria (Pseudomonas putida) and crustaceans (Daphnia magna and Thamnocephalus platyurus). Tests using the alga S. subspicatus revealed that with the exception of 9-hydroxyfluorene, which was only four times less toxic than fluoranthene, all the other metabolites were 37 to approximately 3000 times less toxic than the parent material. P. putida cells were resistant to fluoranthene and its primary metabolites, but were inhibited by low molecular weight intermediates, especially benzoic acid. Fluoranthene was not toxic to T. Platyurus, but was toxic to D. magna. Its primary metabolites (including 9-fluorenone and 9-hydroxyfluorene) were toxic to D. magna, and a low molecular weight metabolite (2-carboxybenzaldehyde) was highly toxic to T. platyurus.
Comparison of biomarker and pathological responses in flounder (Platichthys flesus L.) induced by ingested polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) contamination.	This study investigated the response of biomarker measurements and histopathological indicators of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) exposure in the flounder (Platichthys flesus L.). Flounder were fed food spiked with a mixture of four PAHs at an environmentally relevant range of concentrations for either one or six months. Ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity was elevated following 1 month exposure to PAH concentrations up to 50 mgkg(-1) in food. Bile metabolite concentrations were found to increase with PAH concentration, up to 500 mgkg(-1) PAH. By comparison, no DNA adducts were detected and there were no significant histopathological changes observed. After 6 months exposure, EROD levels were not elevated but bile metabolites showed a similar dose dependent relationship as in the 1 month experiment, while DNA adducts were only detected in the highest PAH exposure groups. No significant histopathological changes were observed. The results are discussed with respect to the implications for the use of these methods in environmental monitoring studies.
Lysosomal membrane stability, phagocytosis and tolerance to emersion in the mussel Perna viridis (Bivalvia: Mytilidae) following exposure to acute, sublethal, copper.	The mytilid mussel Perna viridis is distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific region and is potentially a suitable candidate for biological effects (biomarker) monitoring in the subtropics. A suite of cytological and physiological responses to acute (48-72 h) copper exposures of 50-200 microgl(-1) were assessed in order to determine the suitability of P. viridis for marine pollution monitoring. Copper elicited significant destabilisation of the haemocyte lysosomal membranes and also impaired phagocytosis. Survival during emersion following exposure to copper was not related to the experimental copper exposures suggesting that higher metal concentrations may be required to interfere with anaerobic enzymes responsible for suppression of metabolism. Based on this preliminary study, cytological biomarkers evaluated in the haemocytes extracted from P. viridis should prove an effective non-destructive means of assessing metal pollution throughout the mussels subtropical range.
Effect of oxygen concentration on nitrification and denitrification in single activated sludge flocs.	Simultaneous nitrification and denitrification (SND) was investigated in the single aeration tank of a municipal wastewater treatment plant. Microelectrode measurements and batch experiments were performed to test for the presence of SND. Microelectrodes recorded the presence of O(2) concentration gradients in individual activated sludge flocs. When the O(2) concentration in the bulk liquid was <45 microM, anoxic zones were detected within flocs with a larger diameter (approximately 3000 microm). The O(2) penetration depth in the floc was found to be dependent on the O(2) concentration in the bulk liquid. Nitrification was restricted to the oxic zones, whereas denitrification occurred mainly in the anoxic zones. The nitrification rate of the activated sludge increased with increasing O(2) concentration in the bulk liquid, up to 40 microM, and remained constant thereafter. SND was observed in the aerated activated sludge when O(2) concentration was in the range of 10 to 35 microM.
Stereoselective degradation of aqueous endosulfan in modular estuarine mesocosms: formation of endosulfan gamma-hydroxycarboxylate.	Solutions of alpha-endosulfan, beta-endosulfan, and technical grade endosulfan (70alpha:30beta) were added to modular estuarine mesocosms; the kinetics and degradation products from each mesocosm are reported. The persistent product endosulfan sulfate was generated in all cases; however, its yield was approximately a factor of three higher from alpha-endosulfan relative to beta-endosulfan. Beta-endosulfan hydrolyzed faster than alpha-endosulfan to endosulfan diol, which then rapidly degraded to endosulfan ether, endosulfan alpha-hydroxyether (major product), and endosulfan lactone. The ring-opened form of the lactone, endosulfan gamma-hydroxycarboxylate, is reported for the first time; it appears to be a terminal product, at least over the timescale of the experiment. The equilibrium between endosulfan gamma-hydroxycarboxylate and endosulfan lactone is dependent on pH, as only the protonated form of the gamma-hydroxy acid undergoes ring-closure. The pKa of the gamma-hydroxy acid was determined to be 5.7, implying that the lactone will quickly open and deprontonate under environmentally relevant conditions.
Solids removal in upflow anaerobic reactors, a review.	This desk study deals with the mechanisms and parameters affecting particles separation from wastewater in mainly upflow anaerobic reactors. Despite the fact that the functioning of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) systems depends on both physical parameters and biological processes, the physical parameters have been barely reported in the literature. The reason is that the underlying mechanisms are very complex and depend on various interrelated parameters. In addition, the lack of a serious attempt to gather the entire physical theme into one picture has resulted in just a superficial understanding of this field of science. Better understanding of the interaction and role of these parameters is essential for the development of anaerobic treatment technologies. In this study, the various parameters that might affect the solid liquid separation process by filtration through the sludge bed of a UASB have been elaborated. These parameters have been classified into (1) reactor operational conditions (temperature, organic loading rate, hydraulic retention time and upflow velocity), (2) influent characteristics (influent concentration, influent particle size and influent particle charge) and (3) sludge bed characteristics (particle size distribution, extracellular polymeric substances, and charge). The overall output of this study includes (1) a literature review, (2) structuring of this field of science, and (3) highlighting fields where research is needed.
Effect of saponification on the anaerobic digestion of solid fatty residues.	In France, fatty residues considered as "non-ultimate" waste will not be accepted in landfill from 2002, in accordance with French legislation. Anaerobic digestion appears as an alternative process to mobilize and profitably use such fermentable waste. In this work, the effect of an alkaline pretreatment on the degradation of hexane extractible matter (HEM) and the production of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) was compared in reactors working at pH 6.5 and 8.5. The results obtained showed that 40% (+/- 0.1) of HEM were degraded at pH 8.5 versus 10% (+/- 0.3) at pH 6.5, regardless of the alkali agent used to saponify the greasy wastes. The highest performances of VFA production (8.45% +/- 0.3) were obtained at pH 8.5 with greases saponified by potassium hydroxide, compared to results (4.25% +/- 0.1) with greasy waste saponified by sodium hydroxide. This difference in VFA production might be attributable to biotoxic molecules generated during the saponification of greases by soda, limiting consequently the VFA production process.
Bacterial degradation of dichloromethane in cultures and natural environments.	Dichloromethane (DCM) is a toxic pollutant showing prolonged persistence in water. DCM biodegradation is usually determined from increases in Cl ions, gas chromatography, or by using radioisotopes. Herein, we present an original and easy spectrophotometric method to estimate DCM concentrations in cultures and environmental samples during DCM biodegradation experiments.
Current United States Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service research on understanding agrochemical fate and transport to prevent and mitigate adverse environmental impacts.	Environmentally and economically viable agriculture requires a variety of cultivation practices and pest management options as no one system will be appropriate for every situation. Agrochemicals are some of the many pest control tools used in an integrated approach to pest management. They are applied with the intent of maximizing efficacy while minimizing off-site movement; however, their judicious use demands a practical knowledge of their fate and effects in agricultural and natural ecosystems. Agrochemical distribution into environmental compartments is influenced by the physical and chemical properties of the agrochemical and environmental conditions, ie soil type and structure, and meteorological conditions. Agricultural Research Service (ARS) researchers working in the area of agrochemical fate have focused on accurately describing those processes that govern the transport, degradation and bioavailability of these chemicals under conditions reflecting actual agronomic practices. Results from ARS research concerning the environmental fate and effects of agrochemicals have led to the development of science-based management practices that will protect vulnerable areas of the ecosystem. The new challenge is to identify these vulnerable areas and the temporal and spatial variations prior to use of the chemical by predicting how it will behave in environmental matrices, and using that information, predict its transport and transformation within an air- or watershed. With the development of better predictive tools and GIS (Geographic Information System)-based modeling, the risks of agricultural management systems can be assessed at the watershed and basin levels, and management strategies can be identified that minimize negative environmental impacts.
Effect of ammonium and oxygen on methane and nitrous oxide fluxes across sediment-water interface in a eutrophic lake.	Eutrophication has decreased the O(2) content and increased the NH(4)(+) availability in freshwaters. These changes may affect carbon and nitrogen transformation processes and the production of CH(4) and N(2)O, which are important greenhouse gases. We studied release of CH(4) and N(2)O from a eutrophic lake sediment under varying O(2) and NH(4)(+) conditions. Intact sediment cores were incubated in a laboratory microcosm with a continuous anoxic or oxic water flows containing 0, 50, 500, 5,000, or 15000 microM NH(4)(+). With the anoxic flow, the sediment released CH(4), up to 7.9 mmol m(-2)d(-1). With the oxic flow, the CH(4) emissions were small indicating limited CH(4) production and/or effective CH(4) oxidation. Addition of NH(4)(+) did not affect sediment CH(4) release, evidence that the CH(4) oxidizing bacteria were not disturbed by the extra NH(4)(+). The release of N(2)O from the sediment was highest, up to 7.6 micromol m(-2)d(-1), with the oxic flow without NH(4)(+) addition. Oxygen was the key factor regulating the production of NO(3)(-), which enabled denitrification and production of N(2)O. However, the highest NH(4)(+) addition increased nitrification and associated O(2) consumption causing a decrease in sediment O(2) content and in accumulation of NO(3)(-) and N(2)O, which were effectively reduced to N(2) in denitrification. In summary, sediment CH(4) and N(2)O dynamics are regulated more by the availability of O(2) than extra NH(4)(+). Anoxia in eutrophic lakes favouring the CH(4) production, is the major contributor to the atmospheric consequences of water eutrophication.
Estimation of methane and nitrous oxide emission from paddy fields and uplands during 1990-2000 in Taiwan.	To investigate the greenhouse gases emissions from paddy fields and uplands, methane and nitrous oxide emissions were estimated from local measurement and the IPCC guidelines during 1990-2000 in Taiwan. Annual methane emission from 182,807 to 242,298 ha of paddy field in the first crop season ranged from 8,062 to 12,066 ton, and it was between 16,261 and 25,007 ton for 144,178-211,968 ha in the second crop season with local measurement. The value ranged from 12,132 to 17,465 ton, and from 16,046 to 24,762 ton of methane in the first and second crop season with the IPCC guidelines for multiple aeration treatments, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission was between 472 and 670 ton and between 236 and 359 ton in the first and second crop season, respectively. Methane and nitrous oxide emissions from uplands depend on crop, growth season, fertilizer application and environmental conditions. Annual methane emission from upland crops, vegetable, fruit, ornamental plants, forage crops and green manure crops was 138-252, 412-460, 97-100, 3-5, 4-5 and 3-51 ton, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission was 1,080-1,976, 1,784-1,994, 2,540-2,622, 31-54, 43-53 and 38-582 ton, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission ranged from 91 to 132 ton for 77,593-11,2095 ton of nitrogen-fixing crops, from 991 to 1,859 ton for 3,259,731-6,183,441 ton of non-nitrogen-fixing crops, and from 1.77 to 2.22 Gg for 921,169-1,172,594 ton of chemical fertilizer application. In addition, rice hull burning emitted 19.3-24.2 ton of methane and 17.2-21.5 ton of nitrous oxide, and corn stalk burning emitted 2.1-4.2 ton of methane and 1.9-3.8 ton of nitrous oxide. Methane emission from the agriculture sector was 26421-37914 ton, and nitrous oxide emission was 9810-11,649 ton during 1990-2000 in Taiwan. Intermittent irrigation in paddy fields reduces significantly methane emission; appropriate application of nitrogen fertilization and irrigation in uplands and paddy fields also decreases nitrous oxide emission.
Variability in human metabolism of arsenic.	Estimating the nature and extent of human cancer risks due to arsenic (As) in drinking water is currently of great concern, since millions of persons worldwide are exposed to arsenic, primarily through natural enrichment of drinking water drawn from deep wells. Humans metabolize and eliminate As through oxidative methylation and subsequent urinary excretion. While there is debate as to the role of methylation in activation/detoxification, variations in arsenic metabolism may affect individual risks of toxicity and carcinogenesis. Using data from three populations, from Mexico, China, and Chile, we have analyzed the distribution in urine of total arsenic and arsenic species (inorganic arsenic (InAs), monomethyl arsenic (MMA), and dimethyl arsenic (DMA). Data were analyzed in terms of the concentration of each species and by evaluating MMA:DMA and (MMA+DMA):InAs ratios. In all persons most urinary As was present as DMA. Male:female differences were discernible in both high- and low-exposure groups from all three populations, but the gender differences varied by populations. The data also indicated bimodal distributions in the ratios of DMA to InAs and to MMA. While the gene or genes responsible for arsenic methylation are still unknown, the results of our studies among the ethnic groups in this study are consistent with the presence of functional genetic polymorphisms in arsenic methylation leading to measurable differences in toxicity. This analysis highlights the need for continuing research on the health effects of As in humans using molecular epidemiologic methods.
Effects of biomass accumulation on microbially enhanced dissolution of a PCE pool: a numerical simulation.	Recent studies have shown that dechlorinating bacteria can accelerate the dissolution rate of dense, nonaqueous phase liquids (DNAPLs) containing tetrachloroethene (PCE). We present an advection-dispersion-reaction model for a two-dimensional domain, with groundwater flowing over a pool of free-product PCE. PCE is converted to cis-1,2-dichloroethene (cDCE) and toxicity due to PCE or cDCE is neglected. We adopt previously published correlations relating biomass concentrations and hydraulic conductivity, accounting for biofilm growth and plug-like growth. The system of coupled equations is solved numerically. The high biotransformation rate of PCE increases the concentration gradient of PCE at the water-DNAPL interface, enhancing dissolution. The higher the electron donor (ED) concentration, the larger the dissolution enhancement. Based on the values of maximum specific rate we used, when the electron donor is unlimited, the active biomass accumulates adjacent to the water-NAPL interface and microbial reactions can significantly enhance the pool dissolution. The resulting steady-state dissolution rate can be approximated by a half-order solution when zero-order kinetics are suitable for representing the microbial reaction. However, bioclogging may significantly reduce local hydraulic conductivity; thus, it decreases the flow near the water-DNAPL interface, decreasing dissolution. When the ED is the limiting factor, active biomass accumulates away from the interface. This creates a no-flow zone between the active biomass and the interface. The enlargement of the no-flow zone, due to the donor limitation, diminishes the concentration gradient and the flushing around the water-DNAPL interface. Such adverse impacts may significantly decrease the enhancement predicted by models that do not consider the effects of bioclogging.
Biotransference and biomagnification of selenium copper, cadmium, zinc, arsenic and lead in a temperate seagrass ecosystem from Lake Macquarie Estuary, NSW, Australia.	In this study the biotransference of selenium copper, cadmium, zinc, arsenic and lead was measured in a contaminated seagrass ecosystem in Lake Macquarie, NSW, Australia, to determine if biomagnification of these trace metals is occurring and if they reach concentrations that pose a threat to the resident organisms or human consumers. Selenium was found to biomagnify, exceeding maximum permitted concentrations for human consumption within carnivorous fish tissue, the highest trophic level examined. Selenium concentrations measured within carnivorous fish were also above those shown to elicit sub-lethal effects in freshwater fish. As comparisons are made to selenium concentrations known to effect freshwater fish, inferences must be made with caution. There was no evidence of copper, cadmium, zinc or lead biomagnification within the food web examined. Copper, cadmium, zinc and lead concentrations were below concentrations shown to elicit adverse responses in biota. Copper concentrations within crustaceans M. bennettae and P. palagicus were found to exceed maximum permitted concentrations for human consumption. It is likely that copper concentrations within these species were accumulated due to the essential nature of this trace metal for many species of molluscs and crustaceans. Arsenic showed some evidence of biomagnification. Total arsenic concentrations are similar to those found in other uncontaminated marine ecosystems, thus arsenic concentrations are unlikely to cause adverse effects to aquatic organisms. Inorganic arsenic concentrations are below maximum permitted concentrations for human consumption.
Automated sequencing batch bioreactor under extreme peaks of 4-chlorophenol.	The operation of a sequencing batch bioreactor is evaluated when high concentration peaks of a toxic compound (4-chlorophenol, 4CP) are introduced into the reactor. A control strategy based on the dissolved oxygen concentration, measured on line, is utilized. To detect the end of the reaction period, the automated system search for the moment when the dissolved oxygen has passed by a minimum, as a consequence of the metabolic activity of the microorganisms and right after to a maximum due to the saturation of the water (similar to the self-cycling fermentation, SCF, strategy). The dissolved oxygen signal was sent to a personal computer via data acquisition and control using MATLAB and the SIMULINK package. The system operating under the automated strategy presented a stable operation when the acclimated microorganisms (to an initial concentration of 350 mg 4CP/L), were exposed to a punctual concentration peaks of 600 mg 4CP/L. The 4CP concentrations peaks superior or equals to 1,050 mg/L only disturbed the system from a short to a medium term (one month). The 1,400 mg/L peak caused a shutdown in the metabolic activity of the microorganisms that led to the reactor failure. The biomass acclimated with the SCF strategy can partially support the variations of the toxic influent since, at the moment in which the influent become inhibitory, there is a failure of the system.
Detection and quantitative estimation of Dehalococcoides spp. in a dechlorinating bioreactor by a combination of fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) and kinetic analysis.	The unique capacity of Dehalococcoides ethenogenes of completely dechlorinating the common groundwater pollutant tetrachloroethene (PCE) to the harmless ethene makes this microorganism very attractive for application in natural or engineered bioremediation systems. In this study, the qualitative and quantitative determination of Dehalococcoides spp. in a lab-scale bioreactor was performed based on the combination of fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) for specific detection, and kinetic batch tests at non-limiting hydrogen and PCE concentration for quantitative determination. The dechlorinating bioreactor was operated at a high and constant PCE loading rate of 255 micromol PCE [g volatile suspended solids (VSS)](-1) day(-1). Pale coccoid cells resembling the distinctive morphotype of D. ethenogenes were present in the microbial culture. These cocci hybridised with both eubacterial probes and the Dhe1259t probe recently designed for detecting Dehalococcoides spp. Positive hybridisation was also observed when the DHC1377 reverse primer was used as a specific probe and applied to the dechlorinating microbial consortium. The maximum dechlorination rate obtained under non-limiting hydrogen and PCE concentrations was 3.22 +/- 0.08 mmol Cl(-) l(-1 )day(-1). From the specific activity of D. ethenogenes [i.e. 0.055 +/- 0.008 mmol Cl(-) (mg VSS)(-1) day(-1)], as reported from pure culture study, this observed maximum rate corresponded to a concentration of this bacterium in the mixed liquor of the bioreactor of 59.0+/-10.4 mg VSS.l(-1) (41.5+/-11.2% of overall VSS). This calculated relative abundance of D. ethenogenes was in agreement with the percentage of methanol (in terms of reducing equivalents) channeled to reductive dechlorination (approximately 30%) supporting the assumption that most reductive dechlorination was actually due to this microorganism.
Bioaccumulation, biotransformation, and biochemical effects of brominated diphenyl ethers in juvenile lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush).	Juvenile lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) were exposed to three dietary concentrations (0, approximately 2.5, and approximately 25 ng/g per BDE congener) of 13 BDE congeners (3-10 Br atoms) in the laboratory for 56 days, followed by 112 days of clean food, to examine bioaccumulation parameters and potential biochemical effects. The bioaccumulation of BDEs by the trout was highly influenced by biotransformation, via debromination, which resulted in bioaccumulation parameters that were much different than would be expected based on studies of chlorinated organic compounds (e.g., PCBs). Half-lives (t1/2's) for some BDE congeners (e.g., BDE-85 and -190) were much lower than expected based on their Kow, which was likely due to biotransformation, whereas t1/2's of other BDE congeners (e.g., BDE-66, -77, -153, and -154) were much longer than anticipated based on Kow. This was likely because the metabolites of BDE formed via debromination had the same chemical structure of these BDE congeners, which supplemented measured concentrations. The detection of three BDE congeners (an unknown penta, BDE-140, and an unknown hexa) in the fish that were not present in the food or in the control fish provide further evidence forthe debromination of BDEs. Half-lives of BDEs ranged from 38 +/- 9 to 346 +/- 173 days and biomagnification factors ranged from 1.6 (BDE-190) to 45.9 (BDE-100), but these bioaccumulation parameters need to be viewed with caution because they were highly influenced by debromination and relative abundance of individual BDEs that the fish were exposed to. CYP1A enzyme activity, measured as EROD, and free tri-iodothyronine (T3) concentrations in the plasma of lake trout varied significantly throughout the experiment but were not related to BDE exposure. In contrast, plasma levels of thyroxine levels (T4) were lower in both groups of PBDE-exposed fish compared with control fish after 56 days of exposure, and after 168 days in the high dose, suggesting that PBDEs may influence thyroid homeostasis at levels that are higher than what is normally found in the environment.
Perchlorate-reducing microorganisms isolated from contaminated sites.	An extensive microcosm survey of perchlorate-contaminated sites was undertaken to assess the ability of indigenous microorganisms to degrade perchlorate. Samples from 12 contaminated sites and from one pristine location were analysed. Perchlorate was degraded to below detection limit in all electron donor-amended microcosms. Perchlorate-reducing microorganisms (PRMs) were numerous at most of these sites. Sixteen distinct PRMs were isolated that were phylogenetically related to either Dechloromonas in the Beta Proteobacteria (9/16 isolates) or to Azospirillum in the Alpha Proteobacteria (7/16 isolates). The majority of previously isolated PRMs are in the Beta Proteobacteria related to Dechloromonas or Dechlorosoma. This study indicates that PRMs of the genus Azospirillum may be more prevalent at contaminated sites than the current record of isolates suggests. Cell yields, electron donor to perchlorate ratios and maximum specific growth rates were similar among the isolates and similar to the few previously published values. However, the Monod half-saturation constants for perchlorate for the two Azospirillum isolates characterized were lower than those measured for other genera, suggesting that they may be more effective at low concentrations of perchlorate. These results extend the current understanding of PRMs from diverse environments and provide added confidence that microbial perchlorate reduction is ubiquitous, even at highly contaminated sites, and can be harnessed effectively for bioremediation.
Bulking sludge in biological nutrient removal systems.	Bulking sludge problems are commonly reported in biological nutrient removal (BNR) systems. This has led to the general belief that intrinsic BNR conditions favor the growth of undesirable and excessive filamentous bacteria. The present study shows that other factors have a major role in bulking, and not the BNR conditions. These factors have been verified in well-controlled, strictly anoxic-aerobic and strictly anaerobic-aerobic sequencing batch reactor systems. The experimental results show that conditions known to be responsible for bulking sludge in aerobic systems (i.e., low concentration of electron donor and/or electron acceptor) did not lead to bulking. Even when acetate was present at very low concentrations in the aerobic stage of an anaerobic-aerobic bio-P system, the sludge settleability remained very good. This clearly demonstrates that good bio-P activity can stabilize and improve sludge settleability. The presence of microaerophilic conditions in the anoxic stage of the anoxic-aerobic system was the only factor leading to worsening sludge settling characteristics. The results are discussed in light of our previous hypothesis about the importance of diffusion-limited substrate uptake for the development of filamentous structures in biological flocs. The hypothesis is extended to anaerobic-aerobic and anoxic-aerobic conditions, typical of BNR-activated sludge systems. Taking into account the effect of feeding patterns on biochemical rates and on the development of filamentous bacterial structures, we recommend the adoption of plug-flow selector configurations, with strictly anaerobic and/or strictly anoxic conditions, wherein microaerophilic conditions are excluded, in order to maintain reliable and robust BNR performance.
Decolorization of azo dyes with Enterobacter agglomerans immobilized in different supports by using fluidized bed bioreactor.	Immobilized cells of Enterobacter agglomerans, able to reduce azo dyes enzymatically, were used as a biocatalyst for the decolorization of synthetic medium containing the toxic azo dye methyl red (MR). This bacterial strain exhibits high ability to completely decolorize 100 mg/L of MR after only 6 h of incubation under aerobic conditions. Cells of E. agglomerans were immobilized in calcium alginate, polyacylamide, cooper beech, and vermiculite, and were used for the decolorization of MR from synthetic water by using a fluidized bed bioreactor. The highest specific decolorization rate was obtained when E. agglomerans was entrapped in calcium alginate beads and was of about 3.04 mg MR/g cell/h with a 50% conversion time ( t(1/2)) of about 1.6 h. Moreover, immobilized cells in calcium alginate continuously decolorized MR even after seven repeated experiments without significant loss of activity, while polyacrylamide-, cooper beech-, and vermiculite-immobilized cells retained only 62, 15, and 13% of their original activity, respectively.
Biodegradation of methyl tert-butyl ether and BTEX at varying hydraulic retention times.	The feasibility of biologically degrading methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE)-contaminated groundwater is dependent on the ability to degrade MTBE and its byproducts in the presence of other gasoline contaminants. This study investigates a mixed culture degrading both MTBE and benzene-toluene-ethylbenzene-xylene (BTEX) in a continuous-flow reactor with a biomass retention system (porous pot) at varying hydraulic retention times (HRTs). The reactor degraded both MTBE and BTEX simultaneously to less than the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's drinking water standards and recommendations at an HRT of 3.76 days. Methyl tert-butyl ether was degraded from 75 mg/L to less than 1 microg/L and each BTEX compound was degraded from 17 mg/L to less than 1 microg/L. Effluent concentrations of MTBE and BTEX increased as the HRT was decreased from 3.76 to 0.52 days, but remained lower than drinking water limits. The highest MTBE effluent concentration was at 0.52 days and continued to average less than 10 microg/L. Although tert-butyl alcohol (TBA) is commonly sited as a degradation byproduct of MTBE, it remained lower than 1 microg/L throughout all reactor operation periods. The MTBE and BTEX observed yield coefficients for the reactor ranged from 0.11 to 0.16 mg biomass/mg MTBE and BTEX, with the rate increasing with increased HRT. Degradation rates from the reactor were compared to results from batch studies with the same culture on MTBE and TBA alone and in the presence of BTEX. Results of batch studies showed that BTEX was not required for this culture to degrade MTBE. The presence of BTEX only had an effect on the rate of MTBE degradation at the highest concentration, while BTEX significantly delayed the degradation of TBA at all concentrations. Batch studies also showed that the rate of degradation of TBA was higher with and without BTEX than the rate of degradation of MTBE, explaining the lack of high levels of TBA in the reactor.
Modeling and biokinetics in anaerobic acidogenesis of starch-processing wastewater to acetic acid.	Starch-processing wastewater was anaerobically treated to produce acetic acid in laboratory-scale, continuously stirred tank reactors. The optimal conditions, in which the maximum acetic acid production occurred, were 0.56 d hydraulic retention time, pH 5.9, and 36.1 degrees C. Acetic acid production at the optimum conditions was 672 +/- 20 mg total organic carbon(equivalent) L(-)(1), which indicated a 75% conversion efficiency of influent total organic carbon into acetic acid. A fourth order Runge-Kutta approximation was used to determine the Monod kinetics of the acidogens by using unsteady-state data from continuous unsteady-state experiments at the optimum conditions. The model outputs and experimental data fit together satisfactorily, suggesting that the unsteady-state approach was appropriate for the evaluation of acidogenic biokinetics. These included micro(m), K(s), Y, and k(d), which were evaluated as being 0.13 h(-)(1), 25 mg total carbohydrate (TC) L(-)(1), 0.38 mg volatile suspended solid mg(-)(1) TC, and 0.002 h(-)(1), respectively.
Stratification of activity and bacterial community structure in biofilms grown on membranes transferring oxygen.	Previous studies have shown that membrane-aerated biofilm (MAB) reactors can simultaneously remove carbonaceous and nitrogenous pollutants from wastewater in a single reactor. Oxygen is provided to MABs through gas-permeable membranes such that the region nearest the membrane is rich in oxygen but low in organic carbon, whereas the outer region of the biofilm is void of oxygen but rich in organic carbon. In this study, MABs were grown under similar conditions but at two different fluid velocities (2 and 14 cm s(-1)) across the biofilm. MABs were analyzed for changes in biomass density, respiratory activity, and bacterial community structure as functions of biofilm depth. Biomass density was generally highest near the membrane and declined with distance from the membrane. Respiratory activity exhibited a hump-shaped profile, with the highest activity occurring in the middle of the biofilm. Community analysis by PCR cloning and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of 16S rRNA genes demonstrated substantial stratification of the community structure across the biofilm. Population profiles were also generated by competitive quantitative PCR of gene fragments specific for ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) (amoA) and denitrifying bacteria (nirK and nirS). At a flow velocity of 14 cm s(-1), AOB were found only near the membrane, whereas denitrifying bacteria proliferated in the anoxic outer regions of the biofilm. In contrast, at a flow velocity of 2 cm s(-1), AOB were either not detected or detected at a concentration near the detection limit. This study suggests that, under the appropriate conditions, both AOB and denitrifying bacteria can coexist within an MAB.
Evidence of enantioselective degradation of alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane in groundwater.	In the fall of 2000, 34 groundwater samples were collected from beneath an active pesticide reformulating and packaging facility in coastal northeastern Florida to measure the enantiomer fractions (EFs) of alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-HCH) as an indicator of biodegradation of this chlorinated pesticide in groundwater. Concentrations of alpha-HCH as high as 500 microg/L were observed beneath the historical source area and decreased with distance downgradient. Seventy-eight percent of the EF values were greater than 0.504 and ranged up to 0.890, indicating that the (-)-alpha-HCH enantiomer is preferentially degraded relative to the (+)-alpha-HCH enantiomer at this site. Samples taken from the groundwater that flows north from the historical disposal facility to a local discharge point at a creek did not indicate enantioselective degradation (EF values ranged from 0.495 to 0.512). The acidity (pH 3.7-4.6) and short flow path to the creek for this lobe of the groundwater plume likely preclude biodegradation of alpha-HCH. In contrast, the neutral lobe of the groundwater plume, which flows eastward from the historical source area, demonstrated enantioselective degradation (EF values ranged from 0.500 to 0.890 and increased with distance from the source area). Groundwater conditions beneath this portion of the site are conducive to biodegradation of HCH owing to anaerobic reducing conditions and lengthy travel times, and the chiral signatures for alpha-HCH provide evidence that biological degradation is occurring beneath this portion of the site.
Induction and binding of Cd, Cu, and Zn to metallothionein in carp (Cyprinus carpio) using HPLC-ICP-TOFMS.	The binding of Cd, Cu, and Zn to metallothionein in carp was studied under control and acute Cd exposure scenarios. Carp were exposed to different Cd concentrations for 96 h. Total (Cu, Cd, Zn)-MT levels were determined by the cadmium thiomolybdate saturation assay. Total tissue and cytosolic Cd, Cu, and Zn concentrations were determined by ICP-MS. The cytosolic metal speciation was determined by high pressure liquid chromatography (size-exclusion [SE] in combination with anion exchange [AE]) directly coupled to an inductively coupled plasma time of flight mass spectrometer (ICP-TOFMS). This coupled technique allows the chromatographic separation and online determination of the metals associated to the protein fractions separated. Very strong differences in the tissue compartmentalization and cytosolic speciation of the metals were observed. For example, over 30% of cytosolic zinc was bound to MT in liver while this was only 2% in the kidneys although total cytosolic levels were considerably higher. Induction of metallothionein during cadmium exposure was also tissue specific, displaying different response patterns in gills, liver, and kidney. Cadmium accumulated much stronger in liver and kidney compared to the gills and the latter also showed much lower MT levels. The renal MT-induction was more sensitive to Cd exposure than the hepatic MT induction since a significant increase of Cd-MT and total MT levels occurred at lower tissue Cd concentrations in the kidney in comparison to the liver, except for the highest Cd exposure level where a drastic 10-fold increase in hepatic Cd-MT was observed. At this Cd exposure level also an apparent spill over of zinc to the high molecular weight fraction was observed in the kidneys.
Evaluation of biodegradability of NOM after ozonation.	The major purpose of this study was to develop a simple procedure to describe the kinetics of biodegradation of natural organic matter (NOM) in drinking water and to use this procedure to evaluate changes in the concentration of biodegradable organic matter during ozonation and biotreatment. The proposed approach quantitatively describes the formation and removal of rapidly and slowly biodegradable fractions of NOM. This study showed that, depending on source water, ozonation of NOM may result in either minimal formation of biodegradable organic carbon (BDOC), or the formation of predominantly rapidly biodegradable NOM, or in the formation of both rapidly and slowly biodegradable NOM. The kinetic data obtained in this study suggest that while conventional biofiltration processes are capable of removing the rapidly biodegradable fraction, slowly biodegradable organic matter would remain in the filter effluent and may cause bacterial regrowth in the distribution system. An addition of a small amount of easily biodegradable carbon ("stimulated" biodegradation) to ozonated water appears to be effective for the removal of slowly biodegradable organic matter.
Stable carbon isotope fractionation during aerobic biodegradation of chlorinated ethenes.	Stable isotope analysis is recognized as a powerful tool for monitoring, assessing, and validating in-situ bioremediation processes. In this study, kinetic carbon isotope fractionation factors (epsilon) associated with the aerobic biodegradation of vinyl chloride (VC), cis-1,2-dichloroethylene (cDCE), and trichloroethylene (TCE) were examined. Of the three solvents, the largest fractionation effects were observed for biodegradation of VC. Both metabolic and cometabolic VC degradation were studied using Mycobacterium aurum L1 (grown on VC), Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b (grown on methane), Mycobacterium vaccae JOB5 (grown on propane), and two VC enrichment cultures seeded from contaminated soils of Alameda Point and Travis Air Force Base, CA. M. aurum L1 caused the greatest fractionation (epsilon = -5.7) while for the cometabolic cultures, epsilon values ranged from -3.2 to -4.8. VC fractionation patterns for the enrichment cultures were within the range of those observed for the metabolic and cometabolic cultures (epsilon = -4.5 to -5.5). The fractionation for cometabolic degradation of TCE by Me. trichosporium OB3b was low (epsilon = -1.1), while no quantifiable carbon isotopic fractionation was observed during the cometabolic degradation of cDCE. For all three of the tested chlorinated ethenes, isotopic fractionation measured during aerobic degradation was significantly smaller than that reported for anaerobic reductive dechlorination. This study suggests that analysis of compound-specific isotopic fractionation could assist in determining whether aerobic or anaerobic degradation of VC and cDCE predominates in field applications of in-situ bioremediation. In contrast, isotopic fractionation effects associated with metabolic and cometabolic reactions are not sufficiently dissimilar to distinguish these processes in the field.
Phytoremediation of arsenic-contaminated groundwater by the arsenic hyperaccumulating fern Pteris vittata L.	Arsenic concentrations in a much larger fraction of U.S. groundwater sources will exceed the maximum contaminant limit when the new 10 microg L(-1) EPA standard for drinking water takes effect in 2006. Thus, it is important to develop remediation technologies that can meet this new standard. Phytoremediation of arsenic-contaminated groundwater is a relatively new idea. In this research, an arsenic-hyperaccumulating fern, commonly known as Chinese Brake fern (Pteris vittata L.), was grown hydroponically to examine its effectiveness in arsenic removal from what is believed to be herbicide-contaminated groundwater. One plant grown in 600 mL of groundwater effectively reduced the arsenic concentration from 46 to less than 10 microg L(-1) in 3 days. Re-used plants continued to take up arsenic from the groundwater, albeit at a slower rate (from 46 to 20 microg L(-1) during the same time). Young fern plants were more efficient in removing arsenic than were older fern plants of similar size. The addition of a supplement of phosphate-free Hoagland nutrition to the groundwater had little effect on arsenic removal, but the addition of phosphate nutrition significantly reduced its arsenic affinity and, thus, inhibited the arsenic removal. This study suggested that Chinese Brake has some potential to remove arsenic from groundwater.
Ozonation of nonbiodegradable organics in tannery wastewater.	The study explores the impact of ozonation on the fate of different soluble COD fractions in the tannery wastewater at different phases during the course of biological treatment, in order to identify the phase where ozonation is likely to generate the maximum beneficial effect on biological treatability. Samples from the biological treatment influent and from the mixed liquor at periods significant for the fate of COD fractions have been ozonated. Ozone treatment at the phase where the readily biodegradable COD component was biologically depleted is determined as the most promising alternative among others, since the highest COD removal efficiencies are achieved even with low feeding time of 5 min at the selected ozone flow-rate of 42.8 mg min. The merit of ozonation at this stage in the formation of simpler more biodegradable compounds deserves further attention.
Treatment of dairy effluents in an aerobic granular sludge sequencing batch reactor.	Aerobic granular sludge can successfully be cultivated in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) treating dairy wastewater. Attention has to be paid to the fact that suspended solids are always present in the effluent of aerobic granular sludge reactors, making a post-treatment step necessary. Sufficient post-treatment can be achieved through a sedimentation process with a hydraulic retention time of 15-30 min. After complete granulation and the separation of biomass from the effluent, removal efficiencies of 90% CODtotal, 80% Ntotal and 67% Ptotal can be achieved at a volumetric exchange ratio of 50% and a cycle duration of 8 h. Effluent values stabilize at around 125 mg l-1 CODdissolved. The maximum applicable loading rate is nevertheless limited, as the stability of aerobic granules very much depends on the presence of distinct feast and famine conditions and the degradation of real wastewaters shows slower kinetics compared with synthetic wastewaters. As loading rate and volumetric exchange ratio are coupled in an SBR system, the potential of granular sludge for improving process efficiency is also limited.
Definition, objectives, and evaluation of natural attenuation.	Natural attenuation offers large benefits to owners and managers of contaminated sites, but often raises strong objections from those who live and work near a site and are asked to assume most of the long-term risks. Part of the controversy comes about because published definitions of natural attenuation do not identify a realistic end-point objective, and they also are ambiguous about the naturally occurring processes that can achieve the objective. According to guidance from the U.S. National Research Council (NRC 2000), destruction and strong immobilization are the naturally occurring processes that achieve a realistic objective: containing the contaminant relatively nears its source, thereby minimizing exposure risks. The strategy for obtaining solid evidence that the objective is being achieved requires measurements that establish a cause-and-effect relationship between contaminant loss and a destruction or strong-immobilization reaction. The cause-and-effect relationship is best documented with reaction footprints, which typically are concentration changes in reactants or products of the destruction or immobilization reaction. MTBE presents a contemporary example in which footprint evidence for biodegradation is especially crucial, since aerobic biodegradation of MTBE requires special conditions not present at all sites: a high availability of dissolved oxygen and bacteria expressing particular oxygenase enzymes.
Challenges in monitoring the natural attenuation of spatially variable plumes.	Monitored natural attenuation may be applied as a risk-based remediation strategy if it can be established that contaminants are or will be reduced to some acceptable level at or before a compliance point. Contaminant attenuation is often attributed to intrinsic biodegradation, which in some circumstances may occur only at the plume fringes where electron acceptors from the surrounding uncontaminated zones mix by dispersion and diffusion with the plume. However, due to the common spatial and temporal variability exhibited by many plumes, the centreline monitoring approaches advocated in many natural attenuation protocols may be unable to detect natural attenuation occurring primarily by fringe processes. Snapshot data from a multilevel sampling well transect across an MTBE plume at Vandenberg Air Force Base, CA, USA, illustrate the difficulty of centreline monitoring and the challenge of providing sufficient detail to detect attenuation processes that may be occurring primarily at plume fringes. In a study of a phenols plume in Wolverhampton, UK, high-resolution multilevel wells demonstrated that the key biodegradation processes were restricted spatially to the upper fringe of the plume and were rate-limited by transverse dispersion and diffusion of electron acceptors into the plume. Thus the overall extent of biodegradation was considerably less than suggested by a plume-scale analysis of total electron acceptor and contaminant budgets. These examples indicate that more robust and cost-effective MNA assessments can be obtained using monitoring strategies that focus on the location of key biodegradation processes.
Monitored natural attenuation of chlorinated solvents: assessment of potential and limitations.	Chlorinated solvent contaminations in groundwater and soil are a widespread problem. Their remediation either by active and/or passive measures is complicated though, due to their characteristic features of long plumes and DNAPL. In this study Monitored Natural Attenuation (MNA) is evaluated regarding its applicability to remediate chlorinated solvent sites. At first a short overview of legal requirements is given, by whose means the efficiency of MNA is supposed to be demonstrated and assessed. Thereby the focus is set on the circumstances in the United States and Germany, as in the first MNA is applied as remediation option, whereas in the latter implementation and definition of MNA is under discussion. Based on criteria given by several German guidelines investigation methods and suitable parameters are discussed with the objective to evaluate their potential and limitations to demonstrate MNA at a chlorinated solvent site. Regarding the description of source location/inventory and source emission the legal requirements cannot be accomplished mainly because of missing methods. With regard to the characterization of plume migration, and evaluation of the efficiency of NA processes the combination of hydrogeochemical data and model approaches can accomplish most of the legal requirements. Applicability of microbiological and isotope methods is limited which is also reflected by evaluation of field studies, where these methods have been used at less than 10% of the sites. With regard to chlorinated solvents current German guidelines should be modified to enable the feasible application of MNA as an alternative or additional remediation option.
Long-term sustainability of reductive dechlorination reactions at chlorinated solvents sites.	The sustainability of biodegradation reactions is of interest at Type 1 chlorinated solvent sites where monitored natural attenuation is being considered as a remedial alternative. Type 1 chlorinated solvent sites are sites undergoing reductive dechlorination where anthropogenic substrates (such as landfill leachate or fermentable organics in the waste materials) ferment to produce hydrogen, a key electron donor. A framework is provided that classifies Type 1 chlorinated solvent sites based on the relative amounts and the depletion rates of the electron donors and the electron acceptors (i.e., chlorinated solvents). Expressions are presented for estimating the total electron donor demand due to the presence of solvents and competing electron acceptors such as dissolved oxygen, nitrate, and sulfate. Finally, a database of 13 chlorinated solvent sites was analyzed to estimate the median and maximum mass discharge rate for dissolved oxygen, nitrate, and sulfate flowing into chlorinated solvent plumes. These values were then used to calculate the amount of hydrogen equivalents and potential for lost perchloroethylene (PCE) biodegradation represented by the inflow of these competing electron acceptors. The median and maximum mass of PCE biodegradation lost due to competing electron acceptors, assuming 100% efficiency, was 226 and 4621 kg year(-1), respectively.
Complete biological dehalogenation of chlorinated ethylenes in sulfate containing groundwater.	The ability of dehalogenating bacteria to compete with sulfate reducing bacteria for electron donor was studied in microcosms that simulated groundwater contaminated with both chlorinated ethylenes and fuel hydrocarbon compounds. Results demonstrate that reductive dehalogenation of perchloroethylene to ethylene can proceed in the presence of > 100 mg l(-1) sulfate. The hydrogen concentration, which was 2.5 nM in the presence of approximately 150 mg l(-1) sulfate and in the absence of chlorinated compounds, decreased to 0.7 nM during the dechlorination of trichloroethylene and increased to 1.6 nM during the dechlorination of cis-dichloroethylene and vinyl chloride. With only sediment associated donor ("historical" donor) present, dechlorination of trichloroethylene proceeded slowly to ethylene (on a time scale of several years). Addition of toluene, a model hydrocarbon compound, stimulated dechlorination indirectly. Toluene degradation was rapid and linked to sulfate utilization, and presumably formed fermentable substrates that served as hydrogen donors. Dehalogenation was inhibited in soil free microcosms containing 5 mM sulfide, but inhibition was not observed when either aquifer sediment or 5 mM ferrous chloride was added.
Modeling intrinsic bioremediation for interpret observable biogeochemical footprints of BTEX biodegradation: the need for fermentation and abiotic chemical processes.	The intrinsic bioremediation of BTEX must be documented by the stoichiometric consumption and production of several other compounds, called 'footprints' of the biodegradation reaction. Although footprints of BTEX biodegradation are easy to identify from reaction stoichiometry, they can be confounded by the stepwise nature of the biodegradation reactions and by several abiotic chemical reactions that also produce or consume the footprints. In order to track the footprints for BTEX biodegradation, the following reactions need to be considered explicitly: (1) fermentation and methanogenesis as separate processes, (2) precipitation and dissolution of calcite, (3) precipitation and dissolution of amorphous iron monosulfide (FeS), (4) conversion of FeS into the thermodynamically stable pyrite (FeS2) with loss of sulfide and abiotic formation of H2, and (5) reductive dissolution of solid iron(III) by oxidation of sulfide. We critically review the research that underlies why these mechanisms must be included and how to describe them quantitatively. A companion manuscript develops and applies a mathematical model that includes these reactions.
Formulation of the CBC-model for modelling the contaminants and footprints in natural attenuation of BTEX.	This paper provides the details of the Coupled Biological and Chemical (CBC) model for representing in situ bioremediation of BTEX. The CBC model contains novel features that allow it to comprehensively track the footprints of BTEX bioremediation, even when the fate of those footprints is confounded by abiotic reactions and complex interactions among different kinds of microorganisms. To achieve this comprehensive tracking of all the footprints, the CBC model contains important new biological features and key abiotic reactions. The biological module of the CBC-model includes these important new aspects: (1) it separates BTEX fermentation from methanogenesis, (2) it explicitly includes biomass as a sink for electrons and carbon, (3) it has different growth rates for each biomass type, and (4) it includes inhibition of the different reactions by other electron acceptors and by sulfide toxicants. The chemical module of the CBC-model includes abiotic reactions that affect the footprints of the biological reactions. In particular, the chemical module describes the precipitation/dissolution of CaCO3, Fe2O3, FeS, FeS2, and S degrees. The kinetics for the precipitation/dissolution reactions follow the critical review in Maurer & Rittmann (2004).
Modeling natural attenuation of chlorinated ethenes under spatially varying redox conditions.	A three-dimensional model for the transport and reductive dechlorination of chlorinated ethenes in ground-water systems with variable redox conditions is demonstrated and applied to a pilot test for accelerated natural attenuation of trichloroethene (TCE). The rate and extent of biotransformation of TCE and chlorinated progeny is controlled by the dominant terminal electron accepting process (TEAP) that is simulated over space and time. The solute transport code, Sequential Electron Acceptor Model, 3D-transport, (SEAM3D) which simulates aerobic and sequential anaerobic biodegradation of organic carbon, is modified to implement the equations. Results of a generic model for TCE transport in ground-water systems with different redox conditions demonstrate that the degree of chlorinated ethene attenuation is influenced by background concentrations of aqueous- and solid-phase electron acceptors, but that model results are sensitive to other input parameters (inhibition coefficients, maximum rate of reductive dechlorination, biomass concentrations, and ground-water velocity). Simulation results of enhanced in situ bioremediation using dissolved organic carbon as a reducing agent show that spatial and temporal changes in the dominant TEAP and the subsequent rate of reductive dechlorination are adequately represented with the model. Initial concentrations of Fe(III) and the dechlorinating microbial population influence the simulated time lag observed during the pilot test.
Evaluation of exploration and monitoring methods for verification of natural attenuation using the virtual aquifer approach.	Though natural attenuation (NA) is increasingly considered as a remediation technology, the methods for proper identification and quantification of NA are still under discussion. Here the "Virtual Aquifer" approach is used to demonstrate problems which may arise during measurement of concentrations in observation wells and for interpolation of locally measured concentrations in contaminated heterogeneous aquifers. The misinterpretation of measured concentrations complicates the identification and quantification of natural attenuation processes. The "Virtual Aquifer" approach accepts the plume simulated with a numerical model for a heterogeneous aquifer as "virtual reality". This virtual plume is investigated in the model with conventional methods like observations wells. The results of the investigation can be compared to the virtual "reality", evaluating the monitoring method. Locally determined concentrations are interpolated using various interpolation methods and different monitoring set-ups. The interpolation results are compared to the simulated plume to evaluate the quality of interpolation. This evaluation is not possible in nature, since concentrations in a heterogeneous aquifer are never known in detail.
Biodegradation of PCE and TCE in landfill leachate predicted from concentrations of molecular hydrogen: a case study.	The Refuse Hideaway Landfill (23-acre) received municipal, commercial, and industrial waste between 1974 and 1988. It was designed as a "natural attenuation" landfill and no provision was made to collect and treat contaminated water. Natural biological degradation through sequential reductive dechlorination had been an important mechanism for natural attenuation at the site. We used the concentration of hydrogen to forecast whether reductive dechlorination would continue over time at particular locations in the plume. Based on published literature, reductive dechlorination and natural attenuation of PCE, TCE, and cis-DCE can be expected in the aquifer if the concentration of molecular hydrogen in monitoring wells are adequate (> 1 nanomolar). Reductive dechlorination can be expected to continue as the ground water moves down gradient. Natural attenuation through reductive dechlorination is not expected in flow paths that originate at down gradient monitoring wells with low concentrations of molecular hydrogen (< 1 nanomolar). In three monitoring wells at the margin of the landfill and in five monitoring wells down gradient of the landfill, ground water maintained a molecular hydrogen concentration, ranging from 1.30 to 9.17 nanomolar, that is adequate for reductive dechlorination. In three of the monitoring wells far down gradient of the landfill, the concentration of molecular hydrogen (0.33 to 0.83 nanomolar) was not adequate to support reductive dechlorination. In wells with adequate concentrations of hydrogen, the concentrations of chlorinated volatile organic compounds were attenuated over time, or concentrations of chlorinated volatile organics were below the detection limit. In wells with inadequate concentrations of hydrogen, the concentrations of chlorinated organic compounds attenuated at a slower rate over time. In wells with adequate hydrogen the first order rate of attenuation of PCE, TCE, cis-DCE and total chlorinated volatile organic compounds varies from 0.38 to 0.18 per year. In wells without adequate hydrogen the rate varies from 0.015 to 0.006 per year.
Cd and Zn uptake kinetics in Daphnia magna in relation to Cd exposure history.	The uptake kinetics of Cd and Zn in a freshwater cladoceran Daphnia magna after exposure to different concentrations of Cd for various durations was quantified. The accumulated Cd concentrations increased with ambient Cd concentration and exposure duration. As a detoxification mechanism, metallothioneins (MTs) were induced when the Cd preexposure condition was beyond the noneffect threshold. The MT induction was dependent on both Cd concentration and duration of preexposure. Increasing the Cd exposure concentration to 20 microg L(-1) for 3 d caused a 44% reduction in Cd assimilation efficiency (AE, the fraction assimilated by the animals after digestion) by the daphnids from the dietary phase, but a 2.4-fold increase in Zn AE. Generally, the dissolved metal uptake rate was not significantly affected by the different Cd preexposure regimes, except at a much higher Cd concentration (20 microg L(-1)) when the Zn influx was enhanced. Significant effects from Cd exposure on the ingestion rate of the daphnids were also observed. When the MT synthesis was not coupled with the accumulated Cd tissue burden (e.g., a delay in MT synthesis), apparent Cd toxicity on the feeding behavior and the Cd AE was observed, thus highlighting the importance of MTs in modifying the metal uptake kinetics of D. magna. Overall, daphnids responded to acute Cd exposure by reducing their Cd AE and ingestion, whereas they developed a tolerance to Cd following chronic exposure. The bioavailability of Zn was enhanced as a result of Cd preexposure. This study highlights the important influences of Cd preexposure history on the biokinetics and potential toxicity of Cd and Zn to D. magna.
Research advance in polyphosphate-accumulating microorganisms in enhanced biological phosphorus removal process]	This paper discussed the function of enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) in P pollution control, P containing wastewater treatment and P resources recovery, and summarized the metabolic characteristics, research progress and methodologies of polyphosphate-accumulating organisms (PAOs). Although polyphosphate has been found in many organisms, only few of PAOs were isolated, cultured and identified. Culture medium formulation is the key to isolate PAOs and to study the microbial accumulation of polyphosphate, and the competition of glycogen-accumulating organisms (GAOs) with PAOs for carbon resources is one of the reasons of low EBPR efficiency. Modern scientific methods such as fluorescent in situ hybridization, confocal laser scanning microscope, microautoradiography, and in vivo NMR spectroscopy, provided powerful tools to analyze PAO species composition, spatial structure and functional properties under field conditions. The knowledge of PAO is valuable to enhance the P removal efficiency in water treatment plant, and to improve our understanding on P transformation and transferring in environment.
In situ expression of nifD in Geobacteraceae in subsurface sediments.	In order to determine whether the metabolic state of Geobacteraceae involved in bioremediation of subsurface sediments might be inferred from levels of mRNA for key genes, in situ expression of nifD, a highly conserved gene involved in nitrogen fixation, was investigated. When Geobacter sulfurreducens was grown without a source of fixed nitrogen in chemostats with acetate provided as the limiting electron donor and Fe(III) as the electron acceptor, levels of nifD transcripts were 4 to 5 orders of magnitude higher than in chemostat cultures provided with ammonium. In contrast, the number of transcripts of recA and the 16S rRNA gene were slightly lower in the absence of ammonium. The addition of acetate to organic- and nitrogen-poor subsurface sediments stimulated the growth of Geobacteraceae and Fe(III) reduction, as well as the expression of nifD in Geobacteraceae. Levels of nifD transcripts in Geobacteraceae decreased more than 100-fold within 2 days after the addition of 100 microM ammonium, while levels of recA and total bacterial 16S rRNA in Geobacteraceae remained relatively constant. Ammonium amendments had no effect on rates of Fe(III) reduction in acetate-amended sediments or toluene degradation in petroleum-contaminated sediments, suggesting that other factors, such as the rate that Geobacteraceae could access Fe(III) oxides, limited Fe(III) reduction. These results demonstrate that it is possible to monitor one aspect of the in situ metabolic state of Geobacteraceae species in subsurface sediments via analysis of mRNA levels, which is the first step toward a more global analysis of in situ gene expression related to nutrient status and stress response during bioremediation by Geobacteraceae.
Microbial reduction of U(VI) at the solid-water interface.	Microbial (Geobacter sulfurreducens) reduction of 0.1 mM U(VI) in the presence of synthetic Fe(III) oxides and natural Fe(III) oxide-containing solids was investigated in pH 6.8 artificial groundwater containing 10 mM NaHCO3. In most experiments, more than 95% of added U(VI) was sorbed to solids, so that U(VI) reduction was governed by reactions at the solid-water interface. The rate and extent of reduction of U(VI) associated with surfaces of synthetic Fe(III) oxides (hydrous ferric oxide, goethite, and hematite) was comparable to that observed during reduction of aqueous U(VI). In contrast, microbial reduction of U(VI) sorbed to several different natural Fe(III) oxide-containing solids was slower and less extensive compared to synthetic Fe(III) oxide systems. Addition of the electron shuttling agent anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate (AQDS; 0.1 mM) enhanced the rate and extent of both Fe(III) and U(VI) reduction. These findings suggest that AQDS facilitated electron transfer from G. sulfurreducens to U(VI) associated with surface sites atwhich direct enzymatic reduction was kinetically limited. Our results demonstrate that association of U(VI) with diverse surface sites in natural soils and sediments has the potential to limit the rate and extent of microbial U(VI) reduction and thereby modulate the effectiveness of in situ U(VI) bioremediation.
Fate of carbon tetrachloride during phytoremediation with poplar under controlled field conditions.	The fate of carbon tetrachloride (CT) during phytoremediation with poplar was assessed by examining the transpiration of CT from leaves, diffusion from soil, tree trunks, and surface roots, and accumulation of chloride ion in soil and plant tissues. Feedwater containing 12-15 mg/L CT was added to the field test beds planted with poplar, and over 99% of the CT was removed. No significant amount of CT was transpired or diffused into the air, and no significant amount of CT-chlorine accumulated in the tree tissues. Chloride ion accumulated in the soil accounted for all of the CT-chlorine removed. When soils from the root zones were compared to unvegetated soils, microbial mineralization of CT was not enhanced in soils from the root zones as compared to unvegetated soils. Thus, we conclude that uptake and dechlorination of CT by plant tissues is likely the primary mechanism for phytoremediation by poplar.
Dynamic model for the accumulation of cadmium and zinc from water and sediment by the aquatic oligochaete, Tubifex tubifex.	In aquatic environments, organisms are exposed to and accumulate metals via waterborne and dietary routes including ingested sediment. A key element in understanding metal uptake and accumulation is information concerning the relative importance of the routes of uptake and the kinetics of the processes. In this work the bioaccumulation of the essential element zinc and the nonessential element cadmium were studied from the aqueous and sediment phase, in the cosmopolitan oligochaete Tubifex tubifex, using the radiotracers 109Cd and 65Zn. A compartmental kinetic model was constructed and parametrized by fitting the model to metal body concentrations. Using the pharmacokinetic modeling approach and taking into account the distribution of the metal between water and sediment, the different routes were quantitatively separated. Under the experimental conditions, the sediment phase accounted for 9.8% of the cadmium and 52% of the zinc uptake. These values are based on the uptake of the radiotracers spiked sediments and therefore likely represent maximal values since it was shown that under the specific conditions this was the most mobile metal fraction. This difference was largely explained by the large difference in assimilation efficiency between cadmium and zinc. Simulations of different conditions showed that both dissolved and sediment-associated metal can be important sources of metal exposure for the worms and that the relative importance strongly depends on the metal and exposure conditions including the lability of the metals in the sediment phase.
Effects of sediment characteristics on the toxicity of chromium(III) and chromium(VI) to the amphipod, Hyalella azteca.	We evaluated the influence of sediment characteristics, acid-volatile sulfide (AVS) and organic matter (OM), on the toxicity of chromium (Cr) in freshwater sediments. We conducted chronic (28-42-d) toxicitytests with the amphipod Hyalella azteca exposed to Cr(VI) and Cr(III) in water and in spiked sediments. Waterborne Cr(VI) caused reduced survival of amphipods with a median lethal concentration (LC50) of 40 microg/L. Cr(VI) spiked into test sediments with differing levels of AVS resulted in graded decreases in AVS and sediment OM. Only Cr(VI)-spiked sediments with low AVS concentrations (< 1micromol/g) caused significant amphipod mortality. Waterborne Cr(III) concentrations near solubility limits caused decreased survival of amphipods at pH 7 and pH 8 but not at pH 6. Sediments spiked with high levels of Cr(III) did not affect amphipod survival but had minor effects on growth and inconsistent effects on reproduction. Pore waters of some Cr(III)-spiked sediments contained measurable concentrations of Cr(VI), but observed toxic effects did not correspond closely to Cr concentrations in sediment or pore waters. Our results indicate that risks of Cr toxicity are low in freshwater sediments containing substantial concentrations of AVS.
Influence of total organic carbon and UV-B radiation on zinc toxicity and bioaccumulation in aquatic communities.	The effects of total organic carbon (TOC) and UV-B radiation on Zn toxicity and bioaccumulation in a Rocky Mountain stream community were assessed in a 10-d microcosm experiment. We predicted that TOC would mitigate Zn toxicity and that the combined effects of Zn and UV-B would be greater than Zn alone. However, TOC did not mitigate Zn toxicity in this study. In fact, treatments with TOC plus Zn had significantly lower community respiration as compared with the controls and Zn concentrations associated with the periphyton increased in the presence of TOC. UV-B had no additive effect on periphyton Zn accumulation or community respiration. Heptageniid mayflies (Ephemeroptera) were particularly sensitive to Zn, and reduced abundances were observed in all Zn treatments. UV-B did not additionally impact Heptageniid abundances; however UV-B did have a greater effect on macroinvertebrate drift than Zn alone. Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (groups typically classified as sensitive to disturbance) were found in highest numbers in the drift of UV-B + Zn treatments. Measures of Zn accumulation in the caddisfly Arctopsyche grandis, periphyton biomass, and total macroinvertebrate abundance were not sufficiently sensitive to differentiate effects of TOC, UV-B, and Zn. These results indicate that UV-B and TOC affect Zn bioavailability and toxicity by impacting species abundance, behavior, and ecosystem processes.
Population consequences of fipronil and degradates to copepods at field concentrations: an integration of life cycle testing with leslie matrix population modeling.	The predominant data used in ecological risk assessment today are individual-based rather than population-based; yet environmental policies are usually designed to protect populations of threatened species or communities. Most current methods in ecotoxicology are limited by largely logistic/ technology-driven requirements that yield data for a relatively small number of test species and end points that focus on acute lethality or sublethal nonproduction-based parameters (e.g., biomarkers, mutagenesis, genetic change, physiological condition). A contrasting example is presented here showing the predictive ability of meiobenthos-based full life cycle toxicity testing to extrapolate multi-generational effects of chemicals on variables of import to population growth and maintenance. Less than 24-h-old larvae of a meiobenthic copepod were reared individually in 96-well microplate exposures to parent and degradates of the phenylpyrazole insecticide fipronil. Survival, development rates, sex ratio change, fertility, fecundity, and hatching success were tracked daily for 32 d through mating and production of three broods in spiked seawater. These data were then inserted in a Leslie (Lefkovitch) matrix stage-based population growth model to predict relative rates of population increase (lambda) and changes in net population growth with time and toxicant concentration. Field-reported test concentrations produced strong reproductive (52-88%) and net production (40-80%) depressions for parent (at 0.25 and 0.5 microg/L), desthionyl (0.25 and 0.5 microg/L), and sulfide (0.15 microg/L) moieties as compared to controls. Spiked sediment exposures of 65-300 ng of fipronil/g of dry sediment yielded significantly reduced production rates per female that were 67-50% of control production. The consistent reproductively linked impacts of fipronil and its degradation products at the population maintenance levels suggest risks to sediment-dwelling crustaceans at concentrations well below noneffects for most aquatic test species based on risk assessment data from primarily acute and sub-life cycle toxicity tests.
Modeling of a vapor-phase fungi bioreactor for the abatement of hexane: fluid dynamics and kinetic aspects.	During some previous works, a packed-bed lab-scale biofilter (177 . 10(-6) m3), inoculated with a selected strain of Aspergillus niger had been tested for the abatement of hexane vapors, showing a maximum elimination capacity of 200 g hexane/m3 reactor/h. A steady-state mathematical model taking into account axial dispersion effect was applied to describe the process and predict experimental results, but many model parameters could not be calculated from experimental data. The aim of the present work was to carry out further investigations to accurately determine the dispersion coefficient and the kinetics parameters to verify the effective validity of the model. Analysis of residential time distribution revealed the presence of a certain degree of axial dispersion (dispersion coefficient D of 1.22 . 10(-4) m2/s). Experimental data from kinetic trials carried out in reduced height reactors, together with data from full-scale runs, were elaborated to estimate the kinetic saturation constant (K(s)), the coefficient yield (Y), the maximum growth rate (mu(max)) and maximum substrate degradation rate (r(max)). All these parameters were introduced into the model, which was then solved by simulation software finding a good correlation between experimental and theoretical results.
Characterizing kinetics of transport and transformation of selenium in water-sediment microcosm free from selenium contamination using a simple mathematical model.	This study developed a seven-compartment model for predicting the fate of selenium (Se) in an aquatic environment containing a water-sediment boundary. Speciation of Se in water-sediment microcosms under microaerobic conditions was measured to evaluate first-order kinetics of Se transportation and transformation. The microcosm consisted of a 10-ml solution containing 1mM soluble Se as selenate (Se6+) or selenite (Se4+) and 8 g wet sediment that was free from Se contamination, sampled from the Senri, Yamato, or Yodo Rivers in Osaka, Japan. Stepwise reaction coefficients describing transportation and transformation were determined using an inverse method on this model which includes: selenate (Se(W)6+) and selenite (Se(W)4+) in ponded water; selenate (Se(S)6+) and selenite (Se(S)4+), elemental Se (Se0), organic Se (Se2-) in sediment; and gaseous Se (DMSe). During this 1-month experiment, soluble Se was transported from ponded water to the sediment and Se was transformed sequentially to other Se species through biochemical reactions. Experimental and kinetic analyses indicated quantitatively that the Yamato River microcosm, with its high organic matter content, had a high adsorption rate of soluble Se. The Yodo River microcosm had a low adsorption rate for Se6+ and a low Se reduction rate. The Senri River microcosm had an apparent high volatilization rate of DMSe. The model developed in this study is extremely useful for predicting fate of Se in aquatic environment in the field.
Effects of pH amendment on metal working fluid wastewater biological treatment using a defined bacterial consortium.	The aim of this study was to determine whether pH amendment of a highly alkaline metal working fluid (MWF) wastewater would improve biological treatment in a bioreactor system following introduction of a bacterial inoculum (comprised of the following strains: Agrobacterium radiobacter, Comamonas testosteroni, Methylobacterium mesophilicum, Microbacterium esteraromaticum, and Microbacterium saperdae). The pH values tested were 6, 7, 8, and 9. Three replicate batch mode bioreactors inoculated with the bacterial inoculum (plus an abiotic control bioreactor) were operated for each of the four pH conditions. After 14 days, the final mean chemical oxygen demand (COD) reduction at pH 9 was 50 +/- 1.4%; at pH 8, 58 +/- 1.4%; pH 7, 65 +/- 1.0%; and pH 6, 75 +/- 2.7% of the initial COD (approximately 10,000 mg L(-1)), respectively. Interestingly, within 5 days, the pH in all inoculated bioreactors progressed toward pH 8. However, all abiotic control bioreactors remained at the pH at which they were amended. The fate of the inoculum, determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and by cluster analysis of the resulting DGGE profiles, revealed that the inocula survived throughout operation of all pH-amended bioreactors. Length-heterogeneity polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to track the population dynamics of individual strains. After 7 days of operation, M. esteraromaticum was the most abundant population in all bioreactors, regardless of pH. From our findings, it appears necessary to adjust the MWF wastewater from pH 9 to between 6 and 7, to achieve optimal biological treatment rates.
Degradation of the xenoestrogen nonylphenol by aquatic fungi and their laccases.	Degradation of technical nonylphenol (t-NP), known as an endocrine-disrupting compound mixture, was assessed, using the mitosporic fungal strain UHH 1-6-18-4 isolated from nonylphenol-contaminated river water, and a strain of the aquatic hyphomycete Clavariopsis aquatica. GC-MS analysis could resolve 12 peaks attributable to nonyl chain-branched t-NP isomers. All were degraded, to individual extents. Analysis of degradation metabolites suggested intracellular hydroxylation of the nonyl moieties of individual t-NP isomers. Further metabolites also indicated shortening of branched nonyl chains, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid was identified as a t-NP breakdown product in UHH 1-6-18-4. The t-NP degradation efficiency was higher in UHH 1-6-18-4 than in C. aquatica, and a lower specificity in degradation of individual t-NP constituents in UHH 1-6-18-4 than in C. aquatica was observed. Strain UHH 1-6-18-4 concomitantly produced extracellular laccase under degradation conditions. A mixture of CuSO(4) and vanillic acid considerably enhanced laccase production in both fungi. Laccase preparations derived from UHH 1-6-18-4 and C. aquatica cultures also converted t-NP. Laccase-catalysed transformation of t-NP led to the formation of products with higher molecular masses than that of the parent compound. These results emphasize a role of fungi occurring in aquatic ecosystems in degradation of water contaminants with endocrine activity, which has not previously been considered. Furthermore, the results are in support of two different mechanisms employed by fungi isolated from aquatic environments to initiate t-NP degradation: hydroxylation of individual t-NP isomers at their branched nonyl chains and further breakdown of the alkyl chains of certain isomers; and attack of t-NP by extracellular laccase, the latter leading to oxidative coupling of primary radical products to compounds with higher molecular masses.
Genome sequence of the PCE-dechlorinating bacterium Dehalococcoides ethenogenes.	Dehalococcoides ethenogenes is the only bacterium known to reductively dechlorinate the groundwater pollutants, tetrachloroethene (PCE) and trichloroethene, to ethene. Its 1,469,720-base pair chromosome contains large dynamic duplicated regions and integrated elements. Genes encoding 17 putative reductive dehalogenases, nearly all of which were adjacent to genes for transcription regulators, and five hydrogenase complexes were identified. These findings, plus a limited repertoire of other metabolic modes, indicate that D. ethenogenes is highly evolved to utilize halogenated organic compounds and H2. Diversification of reductive dehalogenase functions appears to have been mediated by recent genetic exchange and amplification. Genome analysis provides insights into the organism's complex nutrient requirements and suggests that an ancestor was a nitrogen-fixing autotroph.
Calibration and deployment of custom-designed bioreporters for protecting biological remediation consortia from toxic shock.	We have previously described the development of a panel of site-specific lux-based bioreporters from an industrial wastewater treatment system remediating coking effluents. The Pseudomonad strains carry a stable chromosomal copy of the luxCDABE operon from Photorhabdus luminescens and display proportional responses in bioluminescence decay with increasing phenol concentration up to 800 mg l-1. In this work we describe their deployment to provide a strategic sensing network for protecting bacterial communities involved in the biological breakdown of coking effluents. This evaluation demonstrated the utility of strategic placement of reporters around heavy industry treatment systems and the reliability of the reporter strains under normal operational conditions. Mono-phenol or total phenolic variation within the treatment system accounted for>65-80% of the luminescence response. The reporters exhibited stable luminescence output during normal operations with maximum standard deviations of luminescence over time of c. 5-15% depending on the treatment compartment. Furthermore, deployment of the bioreporters over a 5-month period allowed the determination of an operational range (OR) for each reporter for effluent samples from each compartment. The OR allowed a convenient measure of toxicity effects between treatment compartments and accurately reflected a specific pollution event occurring within compartments of the treatment system. This work demonstrates the utility of genetic modification to provide ecologically relevant bioreporters, extends the sensing capabilities currently obtained through marine derived biosensors and significantly enhances the potential for in situ deployment of reporting agents.
Colonization of surfaces by phenolic compounds utilizing microorganisms.	The aim of the present study is to determine optimal adhesive interaction of phenolic compounds utilizing Candida maltosa and Rhodococcus erythropolis when adhering to kaolin, silicone, synthetic foil (Steriking R40) and fluorinated silicones, comparing cell and support surface hydrophobicity. In parallel, the interfering effect of detergents was investigated. Data obtained show that the less hydrophobic supports display high initial cell adhesion when contacted with the cell type with a lower surface hydrophobicity (yeast cell) but most stable yeast biofilms are those formed on highly hydrophobic fluorinated silicones. On the other hand, support hydrophobicity has no effect on bacterial cell detachment; however, bacterial biofilms are denser when growing on more hydrophobic supports. Both detergents interfere (independently on the cell type) with the early and late phases of biofilm development.
Azo dye biodegradation by microbial cultures immobilized in alginate beads.	Microbial degradation of azo dyes usually starts in anaerobic conditions with a reductive cleavage of the azo bond, followed by an aerobic step necessary for the degradation of the aromatic amines formed. Because some reductive processes take place also in presence of molecular oxygen, a one-step azo dye degrading process has been investigated. A microbial consortium able to degrade ethyl orange in aerobic conditions has been selected and immobilized in alginate beads coated with polyacrylamide resin. Different concentrations of ethyl orange have been completely degraded in the presence of 1% glucose or starch as cosubstrates, and different beads preparation procedures have been studied to determine the best condition for microbial degradation. The catalytic activity of the immobilized consortium improved during five serial processes carried out for 30 days at room temperature. Three pure cultures were then isolated from the consortium. The one with the greatest degrading activity, a filamentous fungus, had a degradative capacity similar to that of the whole consortium.
Carbon isotopic fractionation during anaerobic biotransformation of methyl tert-butyl ether and tert-amyl methyl ether.	The fuel oxygenate methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) has been frequently detected in groundwater and surface water. Since contaminated sites are often subsurface, anaerobic degradation of MTBE will likely be significant for remediation. As traditional approaches to evaluate biodegradation generally involve laboratory microcosm studies which require time and resources, innovative approaches are needed to demonstrate active in situ biodegradation of MTBE. This study was conducted to gather information at the laboratory level to evaluate the potential of applying carbon isotope fractionation as an indicator for in situ biodegradation of the fuel oxygenates MTBE and tert-amyl methyl ether (TAME). In this study, MTBE utilization was observed in a methanogenic sediment microcosm after a lengthy lag period of about 400 days. MTBE utilization was sustained upon refeeding and subculturing. tert-Butyl alcohol (TBA) was found to accumulate after propagation of cultures. The MTBE-grown cultures also utilized TAME and produced tert-amyl alcohol (TAA). The detection of TBA and TAA indicated that ether bond cleavage was the initial step in degradation for both compounds. Carbon isotope fractionation during anaerobic MTBE and TAME degradation was studied, and isotopic enrichment factors (epsilon) with 95% confidence intervals of -15.6 +/-4.1% and -13.7+/-4.5% were estimated for anaerobic MTBE and TAME degradation, respectively. Addition of 2-bromoethanesulfonic acid, an inhibitor of methanogenesis, substantially prolonged the lag period before transformation, but did not influence carbon isotope fractionation. Our experiment provided strong evidence of significant carbon isotope fractionation during anaerobic MTBE and TAME degradation, demonstrating that this technique can be used as an indicator for in situ MTBE and TAME degradation.
Kinetics and inhibition of reductive dechlorination of chlorinated ethylenes by two different mixed cultures.	Kinetic studies with two different anaerobic mixed cultures (the PM and the EV cultures) were conducted to evaluate inhibition between chlorinated ethylenes. The more chlorinated ethylenes inhibited the reductive dechlorination of the less chlorinated ethylenes, while the less chlorinated ethylenes weakly inhibited the dechlorination of the more chlorinated ethylenes. Tetrachloroethylene (PCE) inhibited reductive trichloroethylene (TCE) dechlorination but not cis-dichloroethylene (c-DCE) dechlorination, while TCE strongly inhibited c-DCE and VC dechlorination. c-DCE also inhibited vinyl chloride (VC) transformation to ethylene (ETH). When a competitive inhibition model was applied, the inhibition constant (K(I)) for the more chlorinated ethylene was comparable to its respective Michaelis-Menten half-velocity coefficient, K(S). Model simulations using independently derived kinetic parameters matched the experimental results well. k(max) and K(S) values required for model simulations of anaerobic dechlorination reactions were obtained using a multiple equilibration method conducted in a single reactor. The method provided precise kinetic values for each step of the dechlorination process. The greatest difference in kinetic parameters was for the VC transformation step. VC was transformed more slowly by the PM culture (k(max) and K(S) values of 2.4+/-0.4 micromol/mg of protein/day and 602+/-7 microM, respectively) compared to the EV culture (8.1+/-0.9 micromol/mg of protein/day and 62.6+/-2.4 microM). Experimental results and model simulations both illustrate how low K(S) values corresponded to efficient reductive dechlorination for the more highly chlorinated ethylenes but caused strong inhibition of the transformation of the less chlorinated products. Thus, obtaining accurate K(S) values is important for modeling both transformation rates of parent compounds and their inhibition on daughter product transformation.
Enrichment of stable carbon and hydrogen isotopes during anaerobic biodegradation of MTBE: microcosm and field evidence.	The conventional approach to evaluate biodegradation of organic contaminants in groundwater is to demonstrate an increase in the concentration of transformation products. This approach is problematic for MTBE from gasoline spills because the primary transformation product (TBA) can also be a component of gasoline. Compound-specific stable isotope analysis may provide a useful alternative to conventional practice. Changes in the delta13C and deltaD of MTBE during biodegradation of MTBE in an anaerobic enrichment culture were compared to the delta13C and deltaD of MTBE in groundwater at nine gasoline spill-sites. The stable isotopes of hydrogen and carbon were extensively fractionated during anaerobic biodegradation of MTBE. The stable isotope enrichment factor for carbon (epsilonC) in the enrichment cultures was -13 (-14.1 to -11.9 at 95% confidence level), and the hydrogen enrichment factor (epsilonH) was -16 (-21 to -11 at 95% confidence level). The isotope enrichment factors for carbon and hydrogen during anaerobic biodegradation indicate that the first reaction is enzymatic hydrolysis of the O-Cmethyl bond. The ratio of epsilonH to epsilonC was consistent between the enrichment culture and the field site that provided the inoculum, and with the other eight sites, suggesting a common degradation pathway. Compound-specific isotope evidence is discussed in terms of its utility for monitoring in situ biodegradation, in particular, for measuring how much MTBE was degraded. For the studied field sites, significant biodegradation of the original mass of MTBE is suggested, in some cases exceeding 90%.
Riboflavin- and cobalamin-mediated biodegradation of chloroform in a methanogenic consortium.	Chloroform (CF) is an important priority pollutant contaminating groundwater. Reductive dechlorination by anaerobic microorganisms is a promising strategy towards the remediation of CF. The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of redox active vitamins as electron shuttles to enhance the anaerobic biodegradation of CF in an unadapted methanogenic consortium not previously exposed to chlorinated compounds. Only negligible degradation of CF was observed in control cultures lacking redox active vitamins. The addition of riboflavin (RF), cyanocobalamin (CNB12), and hydroxycobalamin (HOB12) enabled biodegradation of CF. The reactions were predominantly catalyzed biologically as evidenced by the lack of any CF conversion in heat-killed controls amended with the cobalamins or minor conversion with RF. In live cultures, significant increases in the rate of CF conversion was observed at substoichiometric molar ratios as low as 0.1 to 0.01 vitamin:CF for RF and CNB12, respectively. At the highest molar vitamin:CF ratios tested of 0.2, the first-order rate constant of CF degradation was 5.3- and 91-fold higher in RF and CNB12 amended cultures, respectively, compared to the unamended control culture. The distribution of biotransformation products was highly impacted by the type of redox active vitamin utilized. Cultures supplemented with RF provided high yields of dichloromethane (DCM). On the other hand, cobalamins promoted the near complete mineralization of organochlorine in CF to inorganic chloride and lowered the yield of DCM. In cultures where no or little CF bioconversion occurred, prolonged exposure to CF resulted in cell lysis, as evidenced by the release of intracellular chloride. The results taken as a whole suggest that the anaerobic bioremediation of CF-contaminated sites can greatly be improved with strategies aimed at increasing the concentration of redox active vitamins.
Effect of a commercial alcohol ethoxylate surfactant (C11-15E7) on biodegradation of phenanthrene in a saline water medium by Neptunomonas naphthovorans.	Biodegradation of poorly soluble polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) has been a challenge in bioremediation. In recent years, surfactant-enhanced bioremediation of PAH contaminants has attracted great attention in research. In this study, biodegradation of phenanthrene as a model PAHs solubilized in saline micellar solutions of a biodegradable commercial alcohol ethoxylate nonionic surfactant was investigated. The critical micelle concentration (CMC) of the surfactant and its solubilization capacity for phenanthrene were examined in an artificial saline water medium, and a type of marine bacteria, Neptunomonas naphthovorans, was studied for the biodegradation of phenanthrene solubilized in the surfactant micellar solutions of the saline medium. It is found that the solubility of phenanthrene in the surfactant micellar solutions increased linearly with the surfactant concentrations, but, at a fixed phenanthrene concentration, the biodegradability of phenanthrene in the micellar solutions decreased with the increase of the surfactant concentrations. This was attributed to the reduced bioavailability of phenanthrene, due to its increased solubilization extent in the micellar phase and possibly lowered mass transfer rate from the micellar phase into the aqueous phase or into the bacterial cells. In addition, an inhibitory effect of the surfactant on the bacterial growth at high surfactant concentrations may also play a role. It is concluded that the surfactant largely enhanced the solubilization of phenanthrene in the saline water medium, but excess existence of the surfactant in the medium should be minimized or avoided for the biodegradation of phenanthrene by Neptunomonas naphthovorans.
Study of the evolution and degradation products of ciprofloxacin and oxolinic acid in river water samples by HPLC-UV/MS/MS-MS.	The results of a degradation study of the (fluoro)quinolone antibiotics ciprofloxacin and oxolinic acid in river water samples are presented in this paper. The decomposition of these compounds at ambient temperature was monitored during five months by HPLC-UV, and two consecutive degradation processes (photo- and bio/chemical-degradation) were observed in both cases although with different degradation rates. Ciprofloxacin was completely degraded after 3 months whereas 80% of oxolinic acid remained unaltered after five months of storage. The analysis of the degradation compounds formed was carried out using MS and tandem MS-MS, allowing the identification of four new ciprofloxacin transformation products not previously described in the literature. Possible degradation pathways for this antibiotic in river water are proposed.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) removal in a single pulse suspension bioreactor.	This work describes TCE biotic removal in a single-pulse bioreactor under aerobic conditions. Activated sludge from a wastewater-treatment plant was used for inoculation of the cultivator. The experiment focused on a more detailed verification of microbial composition of mixed heterotrophic culture during pulsed phenol dosage. Attention was given to suppressing eucaryotic organisms, particularly yeasts and fungi, by the addition of cycloheximide. The TCE-removal capacity of the heterotrophic culture, described by kinetic tests, was dependent on pulsed phenol injection and on cyclic addition of phenol and TCE. Maximum TCE degradation was determined in a batch test. It was found that the addition of cycloheximide (an antibiotic against propagation and growth of fungi and yeast) increased the TCE degradation activity of the mixed microbial suspension. A certain residual amount of TCE remained in some of the experiments.
Methanogenic toxicity and continuous anaerobic treatment of wood processing effluents.	Wood processing effluents contain different types of phenolic compounds, from simple monomers to high molecular weight (MW) polyphenolic polymers, that can inhibit wastewater treatment. This work presents a comparative study of the methanogenic toxicity produced by three wood processing effluents (hardboard, fiberboard and BKME (kraft mill effluent)) using Pinus radiata, Eucalyptus and Tepa as feedstock (the last one being a native Chilean tree species). This study evaluates the influence of non-adapted granular and adapted flocculent sludge on forest industrial wastewater treatment as well as continuous anaerobic biodegradation of hardboard processing effluent using the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB). The adapted biomass (flocculent sludge) did not show any lag-phase signs. The 50% IC (the concentration causing 50% inhibition of methanogenic activity) was 4.3 g COD-effluent (chemical oxygen demand (COD)-of the effluent)/l and 2.8 g COD-effluent/l for the flocculent sludge and the granular sludge, respectively. The UASB system worked at low organic load rates (0.1-0.4 g COD/l d) with the COD removal ranging between 10 and 30%, and color removal did not occur under anaerobic conditions due to high MW. Indeed, the MW analysis indicates the presence of phenolic compounds over 25,000 Da in the anaerobic effluent.
Impacts of zooplankton composition and algal enrichment on the accumulation of mercury in an experimental freshwater food web.	There is a well documented accumulation of mercury in fish to concentrations of concern for human consumption. Variation in fish Hg burden between lakes is often high and may result from differences in Hg transfer through lower levels of the food web where mercury is bioconcentrated to phytoplankton and transferred to herbivorous zooplankton. Prior research derived patterns of mercury accumulation in freshwater invertebrates from field collected animals. This study provides results from controlled mesocosm experiments comparing the effects of zooplankton composition, algal abundance, and the chemical speciation of mercury on the ability of zooplankton to accumulate mercury from phytoplankton and transfer that mercury to planktivores. Experiments were conducted in 550-L mesocosms across a gradient of algal densities manipulated by inorganic nutrient additions. Enriched, stable isotopes of organic (CH3(200HgCl)) and inorganic (201HgCl2) mercury were added to mesocosms and their concentrations measured in water, seston, and three common zooplankton species. After 2 weeks, monomethylmercury (MMHg) concentrations were two to three times lower in the two copepod species, Leptodiaptomus minutus and Mesocyclops edax than in the cladoceran, Daphnia mendotae. All three zooplankton species had higher MMHg concentrations in mesocosms with low versus high initial algal abundance. However, despite higher concentrations of inorganic mercury (HgI) in seston from low nutrient mesocosms, there were no significant differences in the HgI accumulated by zooplankton across nutrient treatments. Bioaccumulation factors for MMHg in the plankton were similar to those calculated for plankton in natural lakes and a four-compartment (aqueous, seston, macrozooplankton, and periphyton/sediments) mass balance model after 21 days accounted for approximately 18% of the CH3(200Hg) and approximately 33% of the 201Hg added. Results from our experiments corroborate results from field studies and suggest the importance of particular zooplankton herbivores (e.g., Daphnia) in the transfer of Hg to higher trophic levels in aquatic food webs.
Hydroxyl free radical reactivity toward aqueous chlorinated phenols.	Second-order kinetic constants (k(OH,S)) for the hydroxyl free radical attack on a series of nine chlorophenols (2-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, 2,3,4,5-tetrachlorophenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, and pentachlorophenol) in aqueous solution were determined by means of the competitive kinetics method. Experimental values ranged from 3.5 x 10(09)M(-1)s(-1) for pentachlorophenol to 8.2 x 10(09)M(-1)s(-1) for 2-chlorophenol. A general trend of lower kinetic constant values with higher degree of chlorination was observed and tested with four different correlations using Hammett's sigma values, the number of chlorine substituents on the aromatic ring, and estimated diffusion coefficients. These correlations were statistically significant (alpha=0.01), although the regression coefficients were moderate (R(2)<0.6). Statistical analysis indicated that all correlations were equally valid. This report includes second-order kinetic constants not previously reported for six chlorophenols, and also provides the means to estimate constants for other chlorophenols for which no experimental data are available.
Degradation of nonylphenolic surfactants in activated sludge batch tests.	The fate of nonylphenol polyethoxylate surfactants in the activated sludge wastewater treatment process is a concern due to the formation of estrogenic nonlyphenols on degradation and due to the large amounts discharged to the aquatic environment through sewage treatment works. Batch tests using activated sludge from a Husmann apparatus were used to determine the effects of these compounds physico-chemical properties and biological sludge characteristics on biodegradation. Degradation of nonylphenol polyethoxylates with up to 12 ethoxy groups was observed in unacclimated sludge with a concomitant production of nonylphenol and short chain nonylphenol polyethoxylate compounds. Degradation was determined to be a biotic process involving intracellular enzyme activity, which resulted in sludge age being an influential parameter. With increasing sludge age there is an increase in mixed liquor solids concentration in activated sludge which results in greater bacterial numbers and the potential for greater species diversity which therefore increases compound degradation. However, increased degradation of long chain compounds resulted in an accumulation of shorter chain compounds and nonylphenol, which are more resistant to degradation.
The role of syntrophic associations in sustaining anaerobic mineralization of chlorinated organic compounds.	Stable associations of syntrophic fermentative organisms and populations that consume fermentation products play key roles in the anaerobic biodegradation of chlorinated organic contaminants. The involvement of these syntrophic populations is essential for mineralization of chlorinated aromatic compounds under methanogenic conditions. The fermentative production of low levels of hydrogen (H2) can also be used to selectively deliver a limiting electron donor to dehalogenating organisms and achieve complete dehalogenation of chlorinated aliphatic contaminants such as tetrachloroethene. Thus, tracking the abundance of syntrophically coupled populations should aid in the development and monitoring of sustainable bioremediation strategies. In this study, two complementary nucleic acid-based methods were used to identify and assess relative changes or differences in the abundance of potentially important populations in complex anaerobic microbial communities that mineralized chlorinated aromatic compounds. Population dynamics were related to the consumption and production of key metabolic substrates, intermediates, and products. Syntrophus-like populations were detected in 3-chlorobenzoate-degrading communities derived from sediment or sludge digesters. In the presence of H2-consuming populations, characterized Syntrophus species ferment benzoate, a central intermediate in the anaerobic metabolism of 3-chlorobenzoate and 2-chlorophenol. A DNA probe that targeted characterized Syntrophus species was developed and used to quantify rRNA extracted from the 3-chlorobenzoate- and 2-chlorophenol-degrading communities. The level of rRNA targeted by the Syntrophus-specific probe tracked with the formation of benzoate during metabolism of the parent compounds. Hybridizations with an Archaea-specific probe and/or measurement of methane production demonstrated that methanogens directly benefited from the influx of benzoate-derived electron donors, and the activities of Syntrophus-like and methanogenic populations in the contaminant-degrading communities were closely linked.
Comparison of biostimulation versus bioaugmentation with bacterial strain PM1 for treatment of groundwater contaminated with methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE).	Widespread contamination of groundwater by methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) has triggered the exploration of different technologies for in situ removal of the pollutant, including biostimulation of naturally occurring microbial communities or bioaugmentation with specific microbial strains known to biodegrade the oxygenate. After laboratory studies revealed that bacterial strain PM1 rapidly and completely biodegraded MTBE in groundwater sediments, the organism was tested in an in situ field study at Port Hueneme Naval Construction Battalion Center in Oxnard, California. Two pilot test plots (A and B) in groundwater located down-gradient from an MTBE source were intermittently sparged with pure oxygen. Plot B was also inoculated with strain PM1. MTBE concentrations up-gradient from plots A and B initially varied temporally from 1.5 to 6 mg MTBE/L. Six months after treatment began, MTBE concentrations in monitoring wells down-gradient from the injection bed decreased substantially in the shallow zone of the groundwater in plots A and B, thus even in the absence of the inoculated strain PM1. In the deeper zone, downstream MTBE concentrations also decreased in plot A and to a lesser extent in plot B. Difficulties in delivery of oxygen to the deeper zone of plot B, evidenced by low dissolved oxygen concentrations, were likely responsible for low rates of MTBE removal at that location. We measured the survival and movement of strain PM1 in groundwater samples using two methods for detection of DNA sequences specific to strain PM1: TaqMan quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and internal transcribed spacer region analysis. A naturally occurring bacterial strain with > 99% 16S rDNA sequence similarity to strain PM1 was detected in groundwater collected at various locations at Port Hueneme, including outside the plots where the organism was inoculated. Addition of oxygen to naturally occurring microbial populations was sufficient to stimulate MTBE removal at this site. In some cases, however, inoculation with an MTBE-degrading culture may be warranted.
Uptake of environmental contaminants by small mammals in pickleweed habitats at San Francisco Bay, California.	Small mammals were live-trapped in pickleweed (Salicornia virginica) habitats near San Francisco Bay, California in order to measure the uptake of several contaminants and to evaluate the potential effects of these contaminants on the endangered salt marsh harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys raviventris). Tissues of house mice (Mus musculus), deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), and California voles (Microtus californicus) from nine sites were analyzed for chemical contaminants including mercury, selenium, cadmium, lead, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Concentrations of contaminants differed significantly among sites and species. Mean concentrations at sites where uptake was greatest were less than maximum means for the same or similar species recorded elsewhere. Harvest mice (Reithrodontomys spp.) were captured only at sites where concentrations of mercury or PCBs were below specific levels in house mice. Additional studies aimed at the protection of the salt marsh harvest mouse are suggested. These include contaminant feeding studies in the laboratory as well as field monitoring of surrogate species and community structure in salt marsh harvest mouse habitats.
Biodegradation of aniline and abundance of potential degraders in river waters.	Total dissolved organic carbon (TOC), number of colony forming units (CFU), and total direct count (TDC) were compared to the biodegradation of aniline and the number of potential degraders in water samples from head waters to down stream of the Ina River and several other sites of rivers traversing Osaka city. The results indicate that aniline degrading populations of these various microbial communities exhibit different activities probably depending on the extent of adaptation to pollutants to which the microbes are exposed. The number of aniline degraders found in river water samples was in agreement with other parameters which were used to demonstrate the degree of pollution in river water even though higher biodegradability was evident in waters which show comparatively low TOC and CFU. These results suggest that biodegradation of aniline and enumeration of its potential degraders may serve as valuable indicators for the assessment of pollution in river waters.
Tissue distribution, subcellular localization and endocrine disruption patterns induced by Cr and Mn in the crab Ucides cordatus.	The essential trace elements Cr and Mn are toxic at high concentrations and information about low concentration is insufficient in the literature. In polluted mangroves, the crab Ucides cordatus can represent a useful tool to assess information on the potential impact of trace elements like Cr and Mn on the environment, since this species is comestible and thus, commercially negotiated. Therefore, U. cordatus crabs were exposed in vivo to different concentrations of Cr and Mn solved in seawater and had their tissue distribution and subcellular deposits evaluated. The gill, hepatopancreas and muscle concentrations were determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy and the results showed that Cr and Mn presented the highest values in the gills rather than in the hepatopancreas and muscular tissue. Electron microscopy and analytical X-ray microanalysis revealed Cr precipitates on the gill surface, co-localized with epiphyte bacteria. In addition, since Cr and Mn did not equally accumulate in most of the tissues studied, glycemic rate of animals, which received injections of extracts of eyestalks of the contaminated crabs, were measured in order to evaluate whether the studied concentrations of Cr and Mn could produce any metabolic alteration. The results indicated that extracts of the eyestalks of crabs submitted to Cr and Mn salts and injected into normal crabs markedly influenced crustacean hyperglycemic hormone synthesis and/or release. The results are discussed with respect to sensitivity of the employed methods and the possible significance of the concentrations of Cr and Mn in the organisms.
Partitioning microbial respiration between jet fuel and native organic matter in an organic-rich long time-contaminated aquifer.	The relative importance of jet fuel biodegradation relative to the respiration of natural organic matter in a contaminated organic-rich aquifer underlying a fire training area at Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, USA was determined with isotopic measurements. Thirteen wells were sampled and analyzed for BTX (benzene, toluene, xylene), dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) and CH4 concentrations, and delta13C and 14C of DIC. Results range from non-detectable to 3790 ppb, 1.4-24 mM, 0.2-776 microM, +5.8 per thousand to -22 per thousand, and from 52 to 99 pmc, respectively. Residual fuel was confined to two center wells underlying the fire training area. DIC and CH4 concentrations were elevated down-gradient of the contamination, but also at sites that were not in the apparent flow path of the contaminated groundwater. DIC exhibited greatest delta13C enrichment at highest DIC and CH4 concentrations indicating that CH4 production was an important respiration mode. Radiocarbon-depleted DIC was observed at sites with high hydrocarbon concentrations and down-gradient of the site. The results indicate that while natural attenuation was not rapidly reducing the quantity of free product overlying the aquifer at the site of contamination, it was at least constraining its flow away from the spill site. Apparently under the conditions of this study, BTX was degraded as rapidly as it was dissolved.
Heavy metal binding capacity (HMBC) of municipal solid waste landfill leachates.	This research describes the use of a toxicity assay for the identification of metal toxicity, bioavailability and heavy metal binding capacity (HMBC) of municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill leachates. MetPLATE, an assay specific for heavy metal toxicity, was used to determine the HMBC of MSW leachates collected from 14 sites in Florida, with a wide range of chemical and physical characteristics. The leachates displayed a low toxicity which was attributed to the site-specific parameters, including, high concentrations of both organic and inorganic ligands. The HMBC test was undertaken to measure the effect of these site-specific parameters on metal toxicity. The potential for MSW leachate to bind and, thus, detoxify heavy metals was investigated with copper, zinc, and mercury. The HMBC values obtained ranged from 3 to 115, 5 to 93 and 4 to 101 for HMBC-Cu+2, HMBC-Zn+2, and HMBC-Hg+2, respectively. Additionally, the high strength leachates displayed the highest binding capacities, although the landfills sampled represented a wide range of characteristics. For comparison, the HMBC values reported with local lake water, Lake Alice and Lake Beverly, and a wastewater treatment plant effluent were all below 3. A partial fractionation of MSW leachate samples from sites 1, 5 and 8, was conducted to further investigate the influence of selected site-specific physico-chemical parameters on metal binding. The fractionation revealed that the HMBC of the leachate samples was heavily influenced by the concentration of solids, organics and hardness.
Evaluation of the stability of arsenic immobilized by microbial sulfate reduction using TCLP extractions and long-term leaching techniques.	An investigation was conducted to evaluate the stability or leachability of arsenic immobilized by microbial sulfate reduction. Anoxic solid-phase samples taken from a bioreactor previously used to treat metal and As contaminated water using sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) were subjected to the toxicity characteristic leaching procedure (TCLP) and long-term column leaching tests. The results from TCLP experiments showed that the concentration of As leached from solid-phase sulfide material (SSM) samples after an 18 h extraction time was <300 microgl(-1), which is below the current maximum Australian TCLP leachate value for As, and thus would not be characterized as a hazardous waste. In terms of percent total As leached, this was equivalent to <8.5% for SSM samples initially containing 61.3 mgkg(-1) As. The levels of As extracted by the TCLP was found to be significantly lowered or underestimated in the presence of dissolved oxygen, with As concentrations increasing with decreasing headspace-to-leachant volume ratios. The concentration of As was also consistently higher in nitrogen purged extractions compared to those performed in air. This was attributed to the dissolution of Fe-sulfide precipitates and subsequent oxidation of Fe(II) ions and precipitation of ferric(hydr)oxides, resulting in the adsorption of soluble As and corresponding decrease in As concentrations. According to the experimental data, it is recommended that TCLP tests for As leachability should be performed at least in zero-headspace vessels or preferably under nitrogen to minimize the oxidation of Fe(II) to ferric(hydr)oxides. In long-term leaching studies (approximately 68 days), it was found that the low solubility of the SSM ensured that rate of release of As was relatively slow, and the resulting leachate concentrations of As were below the current Australian guideline concentration for arsenic in drinking water.
Enhancement of p,p'-DDT photodegradation on soil surfaces using TiO2 induced by UV-light.	Enhancement of p,p'-DDT photodegradation on soil surfaces using TiO2 induced by UV-light was mainly investigated in this work. After being spiked with p,p'-DDT, soil samples loaded with different doses of TiO2 (0%, 0.5%, 1%, 2%, and 3% wt) were exposed to UV-light irradiation for 24 h. The results indicated that the photodegradation of p,p'-DDT followed the pseudo-first-order kinetics. TiO2 accelerated the photodegradation of p,p'-DDT significantly as indicated by the half-life reduction from 23.3 h to 10.4 h, corresponding to the TiO2 content from 0% to 3% respectively. In addition, the effects of soil pH, photon flux and humic substances on p,p'-DDT degradation were investigated. The photodegradation rate increased with the increase of the soil pH and photon flux. The humic substances (2% wt) inhibited the p,p'-DDT photodegradation by reducing the amount of light available to excite the p,p'-DDT and TiO2 or by quenching radicals capable of oxidizing p,p'-DDT. p,p'-DDE, p,p'-DDD and DDMU were main degradation intermediates and they were further degraded in the presence of TiO2.
Non-mechanistic modelling of complex biofilm reactors and the role of process operation history.	Using the example of a membrane-supported biofilm reactor for industrial effluent treatment, different non-mechanistic approaches for the modelling of complex bioprocesses are presented and evaluated. The models were obtained employing feedforward artificial neural network analysis for the association of process operation with process performance. Three modelling approaches are discussed, i.e. autonomous static (AS) modelling, non-autonomous static (NAS) modelling, as well as a novel approach termed dynamic modelling with embedding of artificial neural network inputs. They are compared with regard to their ability to infer process performance for two different pollutant case studies, employing 1,2-dichloroethane and 3-chloro-4-methylaniline, respectively. The suitability of the different approaches was found to be strongly dependent on process configuration. Especially in configurations where lag times are apparent, the dynamic modelling approach was found to be superior, and process performance prediction was found to be strongly dependent on the history of process operation.
Developmentally restricted genetic determinants of human arsenic metabolism: association between urinary methylated arsenic and CYT19 polymorphisms in children.	We report the results of a screen for genetic association with urinary arsenic metabolite levels in three arsenic metabolism candidate genes, PNP, GSTO, and CYT19, in 135 arsenic-exposed subjects from the Yaqui Valley in Sonora, Mexico, who were exposed to drinking water concentrations ranging from 5.5 to 43.3 ppb. We chose 23 polymorphic sites to test in the arsenic-exposed population. Initial phenotypes evaluated included the ratio of urinary inorganic arsenic(III) to inorganic arsenic(V) and the ratio of urinary dimethylarsenic(V) to monomethylarsenic(V) (D:M). In the initial association screening, three polymorphic sites in the CYT19 gene were significantly associated with D:M ratios in the total population. Subsequent analysis of this association revealed that the association signal for the entire population was actually caused by an extremely strong association in only the children (7-11 years of age) between CYT19 genotype and D:M levels. With children removed from the analysis, no significant genetic association was observed in adults (18-79 years). The existence of a strong, developmentally regulated genetic association between CYT19 and arsenic metabolism carries import for both arsenic pharmacogenetics and arsenic toxicology, as well as for public health and governmental regulatory officials.
Anaerobic degradation of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and o-xylene in sediment-free iron-reducing enrichment cultures.	Monoaromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX) are widespread contaminants in groundwater. We examined the anaerobic degradation of BTEX compounds with amorphous ferric oxide as electron acceptor. Successful enrichment cultures were obtained for all BTEX substrates both in the presence and absence of AQDS (9,10-anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid). The electron balances showed a complete anaerobic oxidation of the aromatic compounds to CO2. This is the first report on the anaerobic degradation of o-xylene and ethylbenzene in sediment-free iron-reducing enrichment cultures.
Biodegradation of octylphenol polyethoxylate surfactant Triton X-100 by selected microorganisms.	Octylphenol polyethoxylate (OPEO(n)) surfactants are used in numerous commercial and industrial products. Large amounts of such surfactants and their various residual biodegradation by-products are ultimately released into the environment. OPEO(n) biodegradation was performed in this study using pure cultures of Pseudomonas species and strains under different environmental conditions. Environmental factors including the pH, nitrogen sources, and growth kinetics of the cells were investigated. The intermediates of Triton X-100 biotransformation were detected by high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrophotograph (HPLC-MS). We found the highest specific growth rate (mu) was 0.56 h(-1) and this was achieved by strain E with an initial concentration of Triton X-100 of 5000 mg L(-1). A pH level of 7 was most favorable for cell growth for all five strains. The highest specific growth rate was achieved using (NH(4))(2)SO(4) as the sole nitrogen source for strain E. Strain A showed an enhancement of growth when between 0.2 and 1.4 mg L(-1) of H(2)O(2) was added. Detection of intermediates was possible after four days of transformation and the octylphenol triethoxylate (OPEO(3)) peak was predominant, while the high molecular weight peaks had all disappeared. The kinetic analysis demonstrated that the greatest maximum specific growth rate (mu(max)) and the greatest saturation constant (K(s)) of 0.83 h(-1) and 5.24 mg L(-1), respectively, were obtained for strain E in 5000 mg L(-1) Triton X-100. The higher K(i) revealed that strain A was resistant to higher Triton X-100 concentrations.
Changes in bacterial community structure correlate with initial operating conditions of a field-scale denitrifying fluidized bed reactor.	High levels of nitrate are present in groundwater migrating from the former waste disposal ponds at the Y-12 National Security Complex in Oak Ridge, TN. A field-scale denitrifying fluidized bed reactor (FBR) was designed, constructed, and operated with ethanol as an electron donor for the removal of nitrate. After inoculation, biofilms developed on the granular activated carbon particles. Changes in the bacterial community of the FBR were evaluated with clone libraries (n = 500 partial sequences) of the small-subunit rRNA gene for samples taken over a 4-month start-up period. Early phases of start-up operation were characterized by a period of selection, followed by low diversity and predominance by Azoarcus-like sequences. Possible explanations were high pH and nutrient limitations. After amelioration of these conditions, diversification increased rapidly, with the appearance of Dechloromonas, Pseudomonas, and Hydrogenophaga sequences. Changes in NO3, SO4, and pH also likely contributed to shifts in community composition. The detection of sulfate-reducing-bacteria-like sequences closely related to Desulfovibrio and Desulfuromonas in the FBR have important implications for downstream applications at the field site.
Kinetics of BTEX degradation in a packed-bed anaerobic reactor.	The ever-increasing diversity of industrial activity is responsible for the discharge of compounds that are toxic or difficult to degrade into the environment. Some of the compounds found in surface and ground waters, usually deriving from the contamination of oil-based products, are benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX). To remove these compounds from contaminated water, a bench-scale horizontal-flow anaerobic immobilized biomass reactor, containing anaerobic biomass from various sources immobilized in polyurethane foam matrices, was employed to treat a synthetic substrate composed of protein, carbohydrates and BTEX solution in ethanol, as well as a BTEX solution in ethanol as the sole carbon source. The reactor removed up to 15.0 mg/l of each BTEX compound over a hydraulic detention time of 11.4 h. A first-order kinetic model fitted the experimental data well, showing correlation coefficients higher than 0.994. The apparent first-order coefficient values, k1(app), ranged from 8.4+/-1.5 day(-1) for benzene to 10.7+/-1.4 day(-1) for o-xylene in the presence of ethanol, protein and carbohydrates, and from 10.0+/-2.0 day(-1) for benzene to 13.0+/-1.7 day(-1) for o-xylene in the presence of ethanol. The BTEX degradation rates estimated here were 10- to 94-fold higher than those found in reports on microcosm studies.
Kinetic analysis of the inhibitory effect of trichloroethylene (TCE) on nitrification in cometabolic degradation.	In this study, the inhibitory effect of TCE on nitrification process was investigated with an enriched nitrifier culture. TCE was found to be a competitive inhibitor of ammonia oxidation and the inhibition constant (K(I)) was determined as 666-802 microg/l. The TCE affinity for the AMO enzyme was significantly higher than ammonium. The effect of TCE on ammonium utilization was evaluated with linearized plots of Monod equation (e.g., Lineweaver-Burk, Hanes-Woolf and Eadie-Hofstee plots) and non-linear least square regression (NLSR). No significant differences were found among these data evaluation methods in terms of kinetic parameters obtained.
Biodegradation kinetics of linear alkylbenzene sulphonates in sea water.	This article reports the primary biodegradation kinetics of linear alkylbenzene sulphonates (LAS) in sea water from the Bay of Cadiz (South West of the Iberian Peninsula). The authors used the biodegradation test guideline proposed by the Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances of the United States Environmental Protection Agency; 835.3160 "Biodegradability in sea water" in its shake flask variant. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been employed for the analysis of the surfactant material. The surfactant shows a primary biodegradation kinetic in accordance with a logistic model, the kinetic parameters t (50) and lag time were calculated by means of a easy quantitative procedure introduced. Mean values of 6.15 +/- 0.45 and 6.67 +/- 0.6 days were obtained for t (50) and lag time, respectively. These results indicate that although LAS has a high primary biodegradation rate in sea water, it biodegrades slower than in similar tests conducted in river water.
2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) biodegradation in river sediments of Northeast-Scotland and its effect on the microbial communities (PLFA and DGGE).	A bench-scale study was conducted to investigate 2,4-D biodegradation rates at different concentrations (10, 100 and 1000 microg per gram of dry weight) in distinct sediments samples collected on the River Ythan, Northeast-Scotland. Mineralisation of 14C 2,4-D occurred mostly within 30 days for all tested concentrations with a degradation rate ranging from 5 to 750 microg d(-1). Biodegradation rates were affected by the biological and biochemical characteristics of the indigenous microbial community in the studied sediments rather than factors such as compound bioavailability and/or toxicity. PLFA-profiling provided evidences of the effect of 2,4-D amendments on the microbial communities and DGGE-profiling showed changes in the genetic potential of the microbial populations which might affect metabolic characteristics of the sediment. PLFAs biomarkers suggested that the pathway of alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase was the main route of 2,4-D biodegradation. This pathway is commonly found in microorganisms of the beta-subdivision of proteobacteria.
Aerobic treatment of palm oil mill effluent.	In this study treatment of palm oil mill effluent (POME) was investigated using aerobic oxidation based on an activated sludge process. The effects of sludge volume index, scum index and mixed liquor suspended solids during the acclimatizing phase and biomass build-up phase were investigated in order to ascertain the reactor stability. The efficiency of the activated sludge process was evaluated by treating anaerobically digested and diluted raw POME obtained from Golden Hope Plantations, Malaysia. The treatment of POME was carried out at a fixed biomass concentration of 3900+/-200mg/L, whereas the corresponding sludge volume index was found to be around 105+/-5mL/g. The initial studies on the efficiency of the activated sludge reactor were carried out using diluted raw POME for varying the hydraulic retention time, viz: 18, 24, 30 and 36h and influent COD concentration, viz: 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000 and 5000mg/L, respectively. The results showed that at the end of 36h of hydraulic retention time for the above said influent COD, the COD removal efficiencies were found to be 83%, 72%, 64%, 54% and 42% whereas at 24h hydraulic retention time they were 57%, 45%, 38%, 30% and 27%, respectively. The effectiveness of aerobic oxidation was also compared between anaerobically digested and diluted raw POME having corresponding CODs of 3908 and 3925mg/L, for varying hydraulic retention time, viz: 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60h. The dissolved oxygen concentration and pH in the activated sludge reactor were found to be 1.8-2.2mg/L and 7-8.5, respectively. The scum index was found to rise from 0.5% to 1.9% during the acclimatizing phase and biomass build-up phase.
Amaranth decoloration by Trametes versicolor in a rotating biological contacting reactor.	Sequential batch and continuous operation of a rotating biological contacting (RBC) reactor and the effects of dissolved oxygen on the decoloration of amaranth by Trametes versicolor were evaluated. Amaranth belongs to the group of azo dyes which are potential carcinogens and/or mutagens that can be transformed into toxic aryl amines under anaerobic conditions. Cultivation of T. versicolor in a stirred tank reactor was found to be unsuitable for amaranth decoloration due to significant biomass fouling and increase in medium viscosity. Assuming that decoloration follows first-order kinetics, amaranth was decolorized more rapidly when T. versicolor was immobilized on jute twine in a RBC reactor operated either in a sequential batch (k=0.25 h(-1)) or in a continuous (0.051 h(-1)) mode compared to a stirred tank reactor (0.015 h(-1)). Oxygen was found to be essential for decoloration with the highest decoloration rates occurring at oxygen saturation. Although longer retention times resulted in more decoloration when the RBC was operated in the continuous mode (about 33% amaranth decoloration), sequential batch operation gave better results (>95%) under similar nutrient conditions. Our data indicate that the fastest decoloration should occur in the RBC using nitrogen-free Kirk's medium with 1 g/l glucose in sequential batch operation at rotational speeds and/or aeration rates which maintain oxygen saturation in the liquid phase.
Anaerobic biotransformation of estrogens.	Estrogens are important environmental contaminants that disrupt endocrine systems and feminize male fish. We investigated the potential for anaerobic biodegradation of the estrogens 17-alpha-ethynylestradiol (EE2) and 17-beta-estradiol (E2) in order to understand their fate in aquatic and terrestrial environments. Cultures were established using lake water and sediment under methanogenic, sulfate-, iron-, and nitrate-reducing conditions. Anaerobic degradation of EE2 (added at 5 mg/L) was not observed in multiple trials over long incubation periods (over three years). E2 (added at 5 mg/L) was transformed to estrone (E1) under all four anaerobic conditions (99-176 microg L-1 day-1), but the extent of conversion was different for each electron acceptor. The oxidation of E2 to E1 was not inhibited by E1. Under some conditions, reversible inter-conversion of E2 and E1 was observed, and the final steady state concentration of E2 depended on the electron-accepting condition but was independent of the total amount of estrogens added. In addition, racemization occurred and E1 was also transformed to 17-alpha-estradiol under all but nitrate-reducing conditions. Although E2 could be readily transformed to E1 and in many cases 17-alpha-estradiol under anaerobic conditions, the complete degradation of estrogens under these conditions was minimal, suggesting that they would accumulate in anoxic environments.
Synergic treatment for monosodium glutamate wastewater by Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Coriolus versicolor.	Biodegradation and decolorization of monosodium glutamate wastewater were carried out by using an acidophilus yeast strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Coriolus versicolor. For the yeast treatment, the highest COD removal and reducing sugar removal efficiency were 76.6% and 80.2%, respectively. The color removal was only 2%. For C. versicolor treatment, the highest COD removal, color removal and reducing sugar removal efficiencies were 78.7%, 56.5% and 90.9%, respectively. The synergic treatment process, in which the yeast and C. versicolor were successively applied,exhibited great advantage over the individual process.
Detoxification of selenite and mercury by reduction and mutual protection in the assimilation of both elements by Pseudomonas fluorescens.	A study on the assimilation and detoxification of selenium and mercury and on the interaction between these two elements was conducted on Pseudomonas fluorescens. P. fluorescens was able to convert separately both elements to their elemental forms, which are less toxic and biologically less available. To study the converting mechanism of selenite to elemental Se, cells were grown in the presence of various selenite concentrations and several parameters such as extracellular protein concentrations, pH, carbohydrate concentrations, isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH) and malic enzyme were monitored. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and various analytical methods were applied to confirm the interaction between selenium and cell. The former appeared as a red precipitate localized predominantly in the consumed culture medium. P. fluorescens also resisted to the toxic effect of mercury by converting Hg2+ to the volatile and less toxic form Hg0. Mercury reductase was likely responsible for the conversion of Hg2+ to Hg0. More importantly, the interaction between mercury and selenium was also studied. The presence of selenite significantly reduced the accumulation of mercury in P. fluorescens. It was also interesting to note that mercury appeared to behave as a protecting agent against selenium intoxication as the bioaccumulation of Se was also inhibited by this metal. The formation of Se-Hg complexes could explain this mutual protective effect. No precipitate of elemental Se could be detected when Hg was present in the cultures.
Bioconcentration and depuration of copper, cadmium, and zinc mixtures by the freshwater amphipod Hyalella azteca.	The uptake and elimination of copper (Cu), cadmium (Cd), and zinc (Zn) by the amphipod Hyalella azteca during exposure to the metals singly and in various combinations was examined in controlled laboratory experiments. In single metal exposures the accumulation of all metals was rapid and increased with exposure time. Copper elimination was slower compared to that for zinc and for cadmium no elimination was detected after 5 days in clean water. In the two-metal mixtures it appears that the presence of one metal influenced the bioconcentration of the other, since the bioconcentration factor (BCF) for copper was higher in the presence of cadmium than in the presence of zinc and in the case of cadmium, the decrease of K(1) values from cadmium single exposure to the binary and tertiary mixtures suggests possible inhibition of cadmium uptake by the other metals. In the case of the three-metal mixture the situation is less clear, with both increased and decreased BCFs recorded, in comparison to single-metal and two-metal mixtures, suggesting both stimulation and inhibition of metal accumulation.
Recharge processes drive sulfate reduction in an alluvial aquifer contaminated with landfill leachate.	Natural attenuation of contaminants in groundwater depends on an adequate supply of electron acceptors to stimulate biodegradation. In an alluvial aquifer contaminated with leachate from an unlined municipal landfill, the mechanism of recharge infiltration was investigated as a source of electron acceptors. Water samples were collected monthly at closely spaced intervals in the top 2 m of the saturated zone from a leachate-contaminated well and an uncontaminated well, and analyzed for delta(18)O, delta(2)H, non-volatile dissolved organic carbon (NVDOC), SO(4)(2-), NO(3)(-) and Cl(-). Monthly recharge amounts were quantified using the offset of the delta(18)O or delta(2)H from the local meteoric water line as a parameter to distinguish water types, as evaporation and methanogenesis caused isotopic enrichment in waters from different sources. Presence of dissolved SO(4)(2-) in the top 1 to 2 m of the saturated zone was associated with recharge; SO(4)(2-) averaged 2.2 mM, with maximum concentrations of 15 mM. Nitrate was observed near the water table at the contaminated site at concentrations up to 4.6 mM. Temporal monitoring of delta(2)H and SO(4)(2-) showed that vertical transport of recharge carried SO(4)(2-) to depths up to 1.75 m below the water table, supplying an additional electron acceptor to the predominantly methanogenic leachate plume. Measurements of delta(34)S in SO(4)(2-) indicated both SO(4)(2-) reduction and sulfide oxidation were occurring in the aquifer. Depth-integrated net SO(4)(2-) reduction rates, calculated using the natural Cl(-) gradient as a conservative tracer, ranged from 7.5x10(-3) to 0.61 mM.d(-1) (over various depth intervals from 0.45 to 1.75 m). Sulfate reduction occurred at both the contaminated and uncontaminated sites; however, median SO(4)(2-) reduction rates were higher at the contaminated site. Although estimated SO(4)(2-) reduction rates are relatively high, significant decreases in NVDOC were not observed at the contaminated site. Organic compounds more labile than the leachate NVDOC may be present in the root zone, and SO(4)(2-) reduction may be coupled to methane oxidation. The results show that sulfur (and possibly nitrogen) redox processes within the top 2 m of the aquifer are directly related to recharge timing and seasonal water level changes in the aquifer. The results suggest that SO(4)(2-) reduction associated with the infiltration of recharge may be a significant factor affecting natural attenuation of contaminants in alluvial aquifers.
Biotreatment of groundwater contaminated with MTBE: interaction of common environmental co-contaminants.	Contamination of groundwater with the gasoline additive methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) is often accompanied by many aromatic components such as benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, o-xylene, m-xylene and p-xylene (BTEX). In this study, a laboratory-scale biotrickling filter for groundwater treatment inoculated with a microbial consortium degrading MTBE was studied. Individual or mixtures of BTEX compounds were transiently loaded in combination with MTBE. The results indicated that single BTEX compound or BTEX mixtures inhibited MTBE degradation to varying degrees, but none of them completely repressed the metabolic degradation in the biotrickling filter. Tert-butyl alcohol (TBA), a frequent co-contaminant of MTBE had no inhibitory effect on MTBE degradation. The bacterial consortium was stable and showed promising capabilities to remove TBA, ethylbenzene and toluene, and partially degraded benzene and xylenes without significant lag time. The study suggests that it is feasible to deploy a mixed bacterial consortia to degrade MTBE, BTEX and TBA at the same time.
Transformation of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) by Raoultella terrigena.	Manufacture of nitroorganic explosives generates toxic wastes leading to contamination of soils and waters, especially groundwater. For that reason bacteria living in environments highly contaminated with 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) and other nitroorganic compounds were investigated for their capacity for TNT degradation. One isolate, Raoultella terrigena strain HB, removed TNT at concentrations between 10 and 100 mg l(-1) completely from culture supernatants under optimum aerobic conditions within several hours. Only low concentrations of nutrient supplements were needed for the cometabolic transformation process. Radioactivity measurements with ring-labelled (14)C-TNT detected about 10-20% of the initial radioactivity in the culture supernatant and the residual 80-90% as water-insoluble organic compounds in the cellular pellet. HPLC analysis identified aminodinitrotoluenes (2-ADNT, 4-ADNT) and diaminonitrotoluenes (2,4-DANT) as the metabolites which remained soluble in the culture medium and azoxy-dimers as the main products in the cell extracts. Hence, the new isolate could be useful for the removal of TNT from contaminated waters.
Reusing ethyl acetate and aqueous exhausted fractions of dry olive mill residue by saprobe fungi.	Some saprobe fungi (Phlebia radiata, Trametes versicolor, Coriolopsis rigida, Pycnoporus cinnabarinus, Fomes sclerodermus or Pleurotus pulmonarius) were able to bioconvert the ethyl acetate fraction (DEAF) and the corresponding aqueous exhausted fraction (EAF) of dry olive mill residue (DOR), reducing their phytotoxicity on Lepidium sativum seeds. Large amount of hydroxytyrosol together with other eight monomeric phenols were found in the native DEAF fraction, which represents a good source of antioxidants. P. radiata, T. versicolor and F. sclerodermus caused an effective phytotoxicity reduction of EAF in the concentration range of 25-3 gl(-1). In particular, in the range between 12.5 and 3 gl(-1), the EAF samples inoculated with P. radiata and F. sclerodermus surprisingly stimulated the germinability of L. sativum, suggesting their use as a potential biofertilizer. This is the first report which showed the bioconversion of the above fractions in shorter time with respect to the previous findings concerning DOR. The possible implications of laccase in the decrease of DEAF and EAF phytotoxicity was also discussed.
Para-chlorophenol containing synthetic wastewater treatment in an activated sludge unit: effects of hydraulic residence time.	Due to the toxic nature of chlorophenol compounds present in some chemical industry effluents, biological treatment of such wastewaters is usually realized with low treatment efficiencies. Para-chlorophenol (4-chlorophenol, 4-CP) containing synthetic wastewater was treated in an activated sludge unit at different hydraulic residence times (HRT) varying between 5 and 30 h while the feed COD (2500 mg l(-1)), 4-CP (500 mg l(-1)) and sludge age (SRT, 10 days) were constant. Effects of HRT variations on COD, 4-CP, toxicity removals and on settling characteristics of the sludge were investigated. Percent COD removals increased and the effluent COD concentrations decreased when HRT increased from 5 to 15 h and remained almost constant for larger HRT levels. Nearly, 91% COD and 99% 4-CP removals were obtained at HRT levels above 15 h. Because of the highly concentrated microbial population at HRT levels of above 15 h, low effluent (reactor) 4-CP concentrations and almost complete toxicity removals were obtained. High biomass concentrations obtained at HRT levels above 15 h were due to low 4-CP contents in the aeration tank yielding negligible inhibition effects and low maintenance requirements. The sludge volume index (SVI) decreased with increasing HRT up to 15 h due to high biomass concentrations at high HRT levels resulting in well settling sludge with low SVI values. Hydraulic residence times above 15 h resulted in more than 90% COD and complete 4-CP and toxicity removals along with well settling sludge.
Evaluation of sequencing batch reactor performance with aerated and unaerated FILL periods in treating phenol-containing wastewater.	Performance of the sequencing batch reactor (SBR) treating synthetic phenolic wastewater at influent phenol concentrations from 100 to 1000 mg/L was evaluated. Two identical SBRs were built and operated with FILL, REACT, SETTLE and DRAW periods in the ratio of 4:6:1:1 for a cycle time of 12h. One of the reactors was operated with aerated FILL (R1) and the other with unaerated FILL (R2). The treated effluent quality and the rate of degradation during REACT were the criteria for evaluating performance of the two reactors. The results showed that the FILL mode had no significant influence on the treatment efficiency of phenol and COD for the entire range of influent phenol concentrations investigated. However, reactor R1 required a relatively shorter REACT time for phenol removal as compared to R2. This meant that R1 had the advantage of providing treatment at a higher organic loading rate.
Biodegradation of benzidine based dye Direct Blue-6 by Pseudomonas desmolyticum NCIM 2112.	Pseudomonas desmolyticum NCIM 2112 was able to degrade a diazo dye Direct Blue-6 (100 mg l(-1)) completely within 72 h of incubation with 88.95% reduction in COD in static anoxic condition. Induction in the activity of oxidative enzymes (LiP, laccase) and tyrosinase while decolorization in the batch culture represents their role in degradation. Dye also induced the activity of aminopyrine N-demethylase, one of the enzyme of mixed function oxidase system. The biodegradation was monitored by UV-Vis, IR spectroscopy and HPLC. The final products, 4-amino naphthalene and amino naphthalene sulfonic acid were characterized by GC-mass spectroscopy.
BOD5 and COD removal and sludge production in SBR working with or without anoxic phase.	The aim of this study was to estimate the BOD(5) and COD removal efficiency and biomass yield coefficient in sequencing batch reactors (SBR) treating landfill leachate. Experiments were carried out in four SBRs at HRT of 12, 6, 3 and 2d. Two series were performed. In series 1, the reactors were operated in a 24h cycle mode (anoxic 3h, aeration 18 h, settling 2.75 h, and discharge 0.25 h). In series 2, however, the anoxic phase was eliminated. In both series the BOD(5) removal efficiency was almost identical--over 98%. On shortening HRT from 12 to 2d, COD removal efficiency decreased from 83.1% to 76.7% (series 1). In series 2, efficiency ranged from 79.6% to 75.7%. In the reactors working with the anoxic phase the observed biomass yield coefficient (Y(obs)) was nearly constant (0.55-0.6 mg VSS/mg COD). Upon elimination of the anoxic phase, the Y(obs) was observed to decrease from 0.32 mg VSS/mg COD (HRT 2d) to 0.04 mg VSS/mg COD (HRT 12d).
Influence of recirculation on the performance of anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor (AnSBBR) treating hypersaline composite chemical wastewater.	Influence of recirculation on the performance of anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor (AnSBBR) was studied in the process of treating hypersaline (total dissolved inorganic solids (TDIS) approximately 26 g/l) and low biodegradable (BOD/COD approximately 0.3) composite chemical wastewater. Significant enhancement in the substrate removal efficiency and biogas yield was observed after introducing the recirculation to the system. Maximum efficiency (COD removal efficiency - 51%; SDR - 3.14 kg COD/cum-day) was observed at recirculation to feed (R/F) ratio of 2 (OLR - 6.15 kg C OD/cum-day; HLR - 2.30 cum (liquid)/cum day; UFV(A) - 0.023 m/h). Subsequent increase of R/F to 3 (OLR - 6.15 kg COD/cum-day; HLR - 3.07cum (liquid)/cum-day; UFV(A) - 0.035 m/h) resulted in reduction in COD removal efficiency (32%; SDR - 1.97 kg COD/cum-day). The enhanced performance of the system due to the introduction of recirculation was attributed to the improvement in the mass transfer between the substrate present in the bulk liquid and the attached biofilm. The hydrodynamic behavior due to recirculation mode of operation reduced the concentration gradient (substrate inhibition) of substrate and reaction by-products (VFA) resulting in mixed flow conditions.
Bioaccumulation of paraquat by Lumbriculus variegatus in the presence of dissolved natural organic matter and impact on energy costs, biotransformation and antioxidative enzymes.	Dissolved organic matter from natural sources (DNOM) is omnipresent in aquatic ecosystems. Besides affecting bioavailability of substances including xenobiotics, it directly influences physico-chemistry of the habitat and there is increasing evidence for it is interaction with organisms. We investigated direct and interacting effects of DNOM from three sources, Lake Valkea-Kotinen, Svartberget Brook, and Lake Fuchskuhle with the herbicide paraquat on the oligochaete worm Lumbriculus variegatus. Bioavailability of paraquat to L. variegates as well as activities of antioxidative enzymes catalase (CAT) and peroxidase (POD) and biotransformation enzyme soluble glutathione S-transferase (sGST) were assessed without and in the presence of DNOM. Furthermore, metabolic heat dissipation due to the exposure was quantified. Uptake of paraquat into the worms was concentration dependently reduced by DNOM, and with differences concerning the DNOM sources. sGST and CAT responded with increased activities to DNOM (5 and 25 mg C l-1) and paraquat (5.0, 50, and 500 microg l-1) separately. Paraquat at 5.0 microg l-1 and DNOM in combination caused increased activities of sGST, especially at 5 mgC l-1, but inhibition of CAT activities. The latter probably occurred due to saturation of the enzyme. Changes in enzyme activities were independent from the source of DNOM. Increasing DNOM concentrations raised metabolic heat dissipation in L. variegatus with maximum at 3h of exposure. In the combined treatments, metabolic heat dissipation changed more due to the source of DNOM than due to the bioavailability of paraquat.
Predominant growth of Alcanivorax during experiments on "oil spill bioremediation" in mesocosms.	Mesocosm experiments were performed to study the changes on bacterial community composition following oil spill in marine environment. The analysis of 16S crDNA revealed a shift in the structure of initial bacterial population that was drastically different from that one measured after 15 days. The results showed that, after 15 days, bacteria closely related to the genus Alcanivorax became the dominant group of bacterial community in petroleum-contaminated sea water nitrogen and phosphorus amended. This suggested that these bacteria played the most important role in the process of bioremediation of oil-contaminated marine environments.
Assessment of textile dye remediation using biotic and abiotic agents.	The aim of the current work was to assess the removal of direct and reactive dyes using biotic and abiotic agents. Removal of dyes and their derivatives from aqueous solutions was investigated using sugarcane bagasse, sawdust, rice straw, charcoal and fungal biomass as dye removing agents. Seven fungal strains known to have high capacity in removing textile dyes were used. Results of this study indicated that Penicillium commune, P. freii, and P. allii removed 96, 64 and 65%, respectively, of direct violet dye after two hours of incubation. In addition, the use of rice straw was shown to be more efficient in dye removal, than was bagasse or sawdust. Rice straw was effective in removing 72% of direct violet dye within 24 hours. However, with reactive dyes, removal activity was reduced to 27%. Similar trends were recorded with the other tested biotic agents, fast removal of reactive dye was not found after 48 hours of contact time. Results of this study indicate that low-cost, renewable, bioadsorption agents are relatively effective in removing textile dyes from solution.
The freshwater invertebrate Mysis relicta can eliminate chiral organochlorine compounds enantioselectively.	Accumulation and elimination of chiral polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and organochlorine (OC) pesticides by the opossum shrimp, Mysis relicta, was investigated to determine if zooplankton can stereoselectively process chiral OC contaminants. Concentrations and enantiomer fractions were measured within mysids over a 10-day exposure followed by a 45-day depuration period. Rapid accumulation occurred within mysids exposed to sediment contaminated with racemic chiral OC compounds at microg/g levels. Enantiomer enrichment was observed within mysids for the second-eluting enantiomer and the (-)-enantiomer of PCB 95 and trans-chlordane, respectively, after 7 days of exposure to spiked sediment, and for the second-eluting enantiomers of PCBs 91 and 183 and (-)-PCB 149 over longer time periods. Enantiomer fractions decreased with time during the depuration phase of the experiment for these compounds, showing that their elimination from mysids was stereoselective. Oxychlordane was detected in nonracemic proportions after exposure, indicating that mysids can metabolize trans-chlordane enantioselectively. Minimum elimination rates calculated were higher than biotransformation rates calculated for fish in previous studies, which have been shown to metabolize OC contaminants. This study is the first to show stereoselective processing of chiral OC contaminants by aquatic invertebrates.
Anaerobic cometabolic transformation of polycyclic and heterocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons: evidence from laboratory and field studies.	The sulfate-reducing enrichment culture N47 can grow on naphthalene or 2-methylnaphthalene as the sole carbon and energy source. Here we show that the culture can furthermore cometabolicallytransform a variety of polycyclic and heteroaromatic compounds with naphthalene or methylnaphthalene as the auxiliary substrate. Most of the cosubstrates were converted to the corresponding carboxylic acids, frequently to several isomers. The mass spectra of specific metabolites that were extracted from supernatants of cultures containing the cosubstrates benzothiophene, benzofuran, and 1-methylnaphthalene resembled known intermediates of the anaerobic naphthalene and 2-methylnaphthalene degradation pathways (i.e., naphthyl-2-methylsuccinic acid and naphthyl-2-methylenesuccinic acid). This indicates that some of the tested compounds were first methylated and then transformed to the corresponding methylsuccinic acids by a fumarate addition to the methyl group. For some of the cosubstrates, a partial or total inhibition of growth on the auxiliary substrate was observed. This was not caused by the toxicity of the individual cosubstrate itself, but by a specific combination of auxiliary substrate and cosubstrate. None of the cosubstrates tested could be utilized as the sole carbon source and electron donor by the enrichment culture N47. Field investigations at the tar-oil-contaminated aquifer, where strain N47 originated, revealed the presence of a number of metabolites similar to the ones identified in batch culture supernatants. Our findings suggest that aromatic hydrocarbons and heterocyclic compounds can be converted by aquifer organisms and produce a variety of polar compounds that become mobile in groundwater.
Performance of combined process of anoxic baffled reactor-biological contact oxidation treating printing and dyeing wastewater.	A study of the treatment of printing and dyeing wastewater was carried out using the combined process of anoxic baffled reactor-biological contact oxidation. The results showed the pH ascended continuously and the oxidation-reduction potential dropped gradually from compartment 1-6 in ABR. When hydraulic retention time was 12h, color removal efficiency was 92% and the color of effluent of ABR could satisfy the professional emission standard (grade-1) of textile and dyeing industry of China. The total COD removal efficiency of the combined process was 86.6% and the COD of effluent could satisfy the professional emission standard (grade-2) of textile and dyeing industry of China.
Cyanide phytoremediation by water hyacinths (Eichhornia crassipes).	Although cyanide is highly toxic, it is economically attractive for extracting gold from ore bodies containing only a few grams per 1000 kg. Most of the cyanide used in industrial mining is handled without observable devastating consequences, but in informal, small-scale mining, the use is poorly regulated and the waste treatment is insufficient. Cyanide in the effluents from the latter mines could possibly be removed by the water hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes because of its high biomass production, wide distribution, and tolerance to cyanide (CN) and metals. We determined the sodium cyanide phytotoxicity and removal capacity of E. crassipes. Toxicity to 5-50 mg CN L(-1) was quantified by measuring the mean relative transpiration over 96 h. At 5 mgCNL(-1), only a slight reduction in transpiration but no morphological changes were observed. The EC(50) value was calculated by probit analysis to be 13 mgCNL(-1). Spectrophotometric analysis indicated that cyanide at 5.8 and 10 mgL(-1) was completely eliminated after 23-32 h. Metabolism of K(14)CN was measured in batch systems with leaf and root cuttings. Leaf cuttings removed about 40% of the radioactivity from solution after 28 h and 10% was converted to (14)CO(2); root cuttings converted 25% into (14)CO(2) after 48 h but only absorbed 12% in their tissues. The calculated K(m) of the leaf cuttings was 12 mgCNL(-1), and the V(max) was 35 mg CN(kg fresh weight)(-1)h(-1). Our results indicate that E. crassipes could be useful in treating cyanide effluents from small-scale gold mines.
Long term performance of MBR for biological nitrogen removal from synthetic municipal wastewater.	This study monitors the long term performance of membrane bioreactor (MBR) for the treatment of synthetic municipal wastewater at solid retention time (SRT) of 40 and 20d with particular emphasis on simultaneous nitrification-denitrification (SND). SND was greatly influenced by the operating dissolved oxygen (DO). It was found that at an SRT of 20d, nitrogen removal through assimilation into biomass increases as a result of higher biomass yield. The profile of soluble microbial products (SMP) conformed to a cyclical pattern in the MBR with respect to SRT. Decrease in SRT from 40 to 20d resulted in doubling of accumulated SMP concentration (to 56mgl(-1)) in the MBR. This however, was accompanied by a simultaneous drop in percentage of SMP with MW>100kD, from 42.4% to 33%. Also, the sludge filterability decreased by 24-folds despite a decrease in the biomass concentration, following the above reduction in SRT. It was found that the volumetric oxygen transfer coefficient (K(l)a) was a function of biomass concentration in MBR with the ratio of the oxygen transfer coefficient in mixed liquor to that of clean water (alpha) to be 0.2-0.5.
The effect of various iron hydroxide concentrations on the anaerobic fermentation of sulfate-containing model sewage]	The addition of iron hydroxide and iron-reducing bacteria into a fermenter for anaerobic processing of sulfate-containing sewage was shown to decrease sulfate reduction and sulfide concentration, while increasing the total organic carbon (TOC) and methane production. The effect of iron (III) in sulfate-containing sewage depended on its dose, which can be expressed as molar ratio Fe(III)/SO4(2-). Sulfide concentration increased monotonically, reaching 91 mg/l and 45 mg/l after 15 days of processing at Fe(III)/SO4(2-) ratios of 0.06 and 0.5, respectively. However, soluble sulfide production was not observed at ratios equaling 1 and 2. At ratios of 0.06, 0.5, 1, and 2, the maximum rates of TOC removal were 0.75, 1.15, 1.39, and 1.55 g TOC/g of organic matter (OM) per 1 h. Methane production rates were 0.039, 0.047, 0.064, and 0.069 mg/g OM per 1 h, with the mean relative amounts of methane in the biogas being equal to 25, 41, 55, and 62%, respectively. These data can be applied to the development of new methods of anaerobic purification of sulfate-containing sewage.
Arsenic resistance and removal by marine and non-marine bacteria.	Arsenic resistance and removal was evaluated in nine bacterial strains of marine and non-marine origins. Of the strains tested, Marinomonas communis exhibited the second-highest arsenic resistance with median effective concentration (EC(50)) value of 510 mg As l(-1), and was capable of removing arsenic from culture medium amended with arsenate. Arsenic accumulation in cells amounted to 2290 microg As g(-1) (dry weight) when incubated on medium containing 5 mg As l(-1) of arsenate. More than half of the arsenic removed was related to metabolic activity: 45% of the arsenic was incorporated into the cytosol fraction and 10% was found in the lipid-bound fraction of the membrane, with the remaining arsenic considered to be adsorbed onto the cell surface. Potential arsenic resistance and removal were also examined in six marine and non-marine environmental water samples. Of the total bacterial colony counts, 28-100% of bacteria showed arsenic resistance. Some of the bacterial consortia, especially those from seawater enriched with arsenate, exhibited higher accumulated levels of arsenic than M. communis under the same condition. These results showed that arsenic resistant and/or accumulating bacteria are widespread in the aquatic environment, and that arsenic-accumulating bacteria such as M. communis are potential candidates for bioremediation of arsenic contaminated water.
Bioaccumulation of 14C-PCB 101 and 14C-PBDE 99 in the marine planktonic copepod Calanus finmarchicus under different food regimes.	Bioaccumulation factors (BAFs) were determined for (14)C-PCB 101 and (14)C-PBDE 99 in the pelagic copepod Calanus finmarchicus after exposure to either contaminated water or after being fed contaminated phytoplankton (the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum minimum or the diatom Thalassiosira weissflogii). BAFs in algae range from 7.6 to 8.0 for PCB 101 and from 8.5 to 8.6 for PBDE 99. BAFs in copepods were significantly lower, 6.3-6.8 for PCB 101 and 7.6 for PBDE 99. For each compound, the BAFs in copepods were independent of what algal species they had consumed, even though the bioaccumulation of both compounds were higher in P. minimum than in T. weissflogii. The ratios between BAF and the K(ow) for PCB 101 and PBDE 99 were similar within each of the three species, but varied between species. For copepods the ratios were 2-4, for T. weissfloggii 15-22 and for P. minimum 32-40. The data strongly suggest that the two compounds bioaccumulate in a similar manner and that there is no biomagnification in the transfer between phytoplankton and herbivorous copepods.
Detoxification of olive mill wastewater by electrocoagulation and sedimentation processes.	Olive mill wastewater (OMW) is characterised by its high suspended solids content (SS), high turbidity (NTU), chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration up to 100 gl(-1) and toxic phenolic compounds concentration up to 10 gl(-1). This study examined the effect of a physico-electrochemical method to detoxify olive mill wastewater prior an anaerobic biotreatment process. The proposed pre-treatment process consisted in a preliminary electrocoagulation step in which most phenolic compounds were polymerised, followed by a sedimentation step. The BOD(5)/COD ratio of the electrocoagulated OMW increased from 0.33, initial value, to 0.58. Furthermore, the sedimentation step yielded the removal of 76.2%, 75% and 71% of phenolic compounds, turbidity and suspended solid, respectively, after 3 days of plain settling. The combination of electrocoagulation and sedimentation allowed a COD reduction and decoloration of about 43% and 90%, respectively. This pre-treatment decreases the inhibition of Vibrio fisheri luminescence by 66.4%. Continuous anaerobic biomethanization experiments conducted in parallel with raw OMW and electrocoagulated OMW before and after sedimentation at a loading rate of 6g COD l(-1)day(-1), proved that the final pre-treated OMW was bioconverted into methane at high yield while raw OMW was very toxic to anaerobic microorganisms.
Precipitation of Zn(II), Cu(II) and Pb(II) at bench-scale using biogenic hydrogen sulfide from the utilization of volatile fatty acids.	Biological production of hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) using sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) has important potential within environmental biotechnology. The aim of this work was to study the possibility of using SRB for the treatment of an acid mine drainage (AMD) at bench-scale. This process involved three stages: the optimization of H(2)S production through the utilization of total volatile fatty acids (TVFAs) by SRB, the establishment of a biofilm reactor for sulfide production, and the precipitation of metals by using the biologically produced H(2)S. The substrates used for TVFAs production consisted of papaya, apple and banana. The H(2)S produced from the degradation of TVFAs was utilized for the precipitation of a metal-contaminated effluent collected from Bolivar mine (Oruro, Bolivia). The maximum concentration of H(2)S obtained was approximately 16mM. Removal efficiencies of ca. 100% for copper, above 94% for zinc, and above 92% for lead were achieved.
Enhanced desorption and biodegradation of phenanthrene in soil-water systems with the presence of anionic-nonionic mixed surfactants.	The effects of anionic-nonionic mixed surfactants, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) mixed with Triton X-100 (TX100), on the desorption and biodegradation of phenanthrene in soil-water system were investigated in an aim to improve the efficiency of surfactant bioremediation technology. Results indicated that the presence of SDS not only increased the solubilization of TX100 for phenanthrene, but also reduced the sorption of TX100 onto soils. As a result, the desorption efficiency of phenanthrene from the contaminated soil was greatly enhanced by mixed surfactant solutions compared with that by single TX100 solution and appeared to be positively related with the mole fraction of SDS in solution. Mixed surfactants with relatively smaller ratio promoted phenanthrene biodegradation, for example, the biodegradation percentage of phenanthrene in 1:9 SDS-TX100 mixed solutions was about 165% of that in the single TX100 solution at the same TX100 concentration of 1.6 mmol/L in 24h. But the biodegradation was inhibited with larger ratio of SDS in the mixed solutions, which may be due to the preferential utilization of SDS by phenanthrene degraders. Thus, the selection of mixed surfactants should consider simultaneously the effects of SDS on desorption and biodegradation. The experimental results can be used to provide valuable information in designing the surfactant bioremediation technology for contaminated soils.
Bioconcentration, biomagnification and metabolism of 14C-terbutryn and 14C-benzo[a]pyrene in Gammarus fossarum and Asellus aquaticus.	The contribution of bioconcentration and biomagnification of 14C-terbutryn and 14C-benzo[a]pyrene via food and water to the bioaccumulation in Gammarus fossarum and Asellus aquaticus was investigated in single species-tests. In this investigation the uptake of 14C-terbutryn and 14C-benzo[a]pyrene via food and water by G. fossarum (L.) and A. aquaticus (L.) was examined. Bioconcentration factors (BCFs) and biomagnification factors (BMFs) were determined. Calculated BCFs were clearly higher than BMFs, indicating that water is the primary route of uptake. The uptake of terbutryn and benzo[a]pyren via water in G. fossarum and A. aquaticus is faster than uptake via food. The elimination and metabolism of the two chemicals by G. fossarum and A. aquaticus were studied. Terbutryn was eliminated almost completely in both species. In general, the elimination of terbutryn from G. fossarum and A. aquaticus was fast with half-life of 5 h. The elimination of terbutryn by G. fossarum after biomagnification is slower than after bioconcentration. No difference was found in elimination of terbutryn by A. aquaticus after biomagnification and after bioconcentration. Metabolites of terbutryn in G. fossarum and A. aquaticus were analyzed by HPLC. After the bioconcentration experiment a higher percentage of metabolites was found in G. fossarum than in A. aquaticus. This was confirmed for the experiment with uptake via food. The spectrum of metabolites was similar in both species, with hydroxyterbutryn being the major metabolism product in water. 14C-B[a]P could nearly completely be eliminated by G. fossarum (rest of activity 2%) after uptake via water. 14C-B[a]P could not be eliminated by G. fossarum and A. aquaticus after uptake via food. The metabolite could not be identified.
Enzyme and fungal treatments and a combination thereof reduce olive mill wastewater phytotoxicity on Zea mays L. seeds.	The phytotoxicity of olive-mill wastewater (OMW) has been suggested to be mainly due to its phenolic components. This study investigated the impact of three different low-cost dephenolization treatments on the wastewater phytotoxicity. To this aim, germinability of maize (Zea mays L.) seeds sown on a sandy-loamy soil which had been spread with different volumes (from 40 to 160m(3)ha(-1)) of either biologically-treated OMW or relative incubation control was determined. Biological treatments included either Panus tigrinus liquid cultures or incubation with commercial laccase (1UIml(-1)) or an innovative sequential combination of laccase and P. tigrinus cultures. All treatments markedly reduced phytotoxicity and promising results were obtained with commercial laccase. In fact, germinability and mean germination times in soil spread with laccase-treated OMW, did not significantly differ from those observed in soil irrigated with tap water (control) up to OMW volumes of 120m(3)ha(-1). Although the highest phenol reduction (ca. 81%) was obtained by the sequential use of laccase and P. tigrinus, the feasibility of the enzyme treatment is undoubtedly more convincing under the technological point of view.
Accumulation features of organochlorine pesticides and heavy metals in fish from high mountain lakes and Lhasa River in the Tibetan Plateau.	Organochlorine pesticides and heavy metals were analyzed in fish from remote mountain lakes and Lhasa River in Tibetan Plateau. Concentrations of summation operatorHCH, summation operatorDDT and HCB in fish muscles were in the range of 0.13-2.6 ng/g, 0.78-23 ng/g, 0.31-3.2 ng/g based on wet weight, respectively. Heavy metals were routinely found with different levels in fish. The Cu and Zn levels were relatively high with the maximum concentrations reaching 2.0 and 6.9 microg/g, respectively. Accumulation of OCPs and heavy metals are quite different in tissues and organs. Gill seems to accumulate more OCPs due to absorption by its larger surface per tissue. Heavy metal levels were generally high in liver, eggs and gill, and low in brain and muscle. Results from this study demonstrate that the Tibetan Plateau functions as a regional contaminant convergence zone by long-range atmospheric transport and orographic cold trapping.
Evidence of an altered protective effect of metallothioneins after cadmium exposure in the digenean parasite-infected cockle (Cerastoderma edule).	The aim of the present study was to analyse the relation between parasitism and subsequent metallothioneins (MT) in the case of metal contamination. Experimental exposure of parasitized and unparasitized cockles (Cerastoderma edule) to cadmium (Cd) was performed, with the cockle as first or second intermediate host of 2 digenean species. After 7 days of Cd exposure in microcosms, cockles infected as first intermediate host by Labratrema minimus exhibited metal concentrations in tissues double that in uninfected cockles. Jointly, MT concentrations of parasitized cockles were not modified in comparison with uninfected individuals in which concentrations were increased 4.3-fold compared with controls. In cockles experimentally infected as the second intermediate host by Himasthla elongata, cadmium concentrations significantly increased again in parasitized cockles compared with uninfected individuals in contaminated conditions. Simultaneously, MT concentrations in healthy cockles increased, whereas they significantly decreased in parasitized individuals. Therefore, the presence of digenean parasites in Cd-exposed cockles leads to a maintenance or a decrease in MT concentrations compared with healthy individuals, whereas Cd accumulation in tissues is significantly increased. These experiments indicate a significant alteration of the protective effect of metallothioneins towards metals which could consequently enhance cockle vulnerability. Moreover, these results highlight the limit of the use of MT as a biomarker of metal pollution in field monitoring if parasitism is not taken into account.
Efficiency of Penicillium chrysogenum PTCC 5037 in reducing low concentration of chromium hexavalent in a chromium electroplating plant wastewater.	The effectiveness of Penicillium chrysogenum was evaluated for reducing Cr(VI) from the wastewater of a chromium electroplating plant. Statistically-based experimental designs were applied to optimize the condition for reducing Cr(VI) to Cr(III). By applying Plackett-Burman factorial design and central composite design as the optimization step, attempts were made to identify optimal values of the three factors that bringing about maximum microorganism activity and therefore maximum hexavalent chromium(VI) bioreduction. It was found that each gram of P. chrysogenum of dry biomass condition could reduce 66 mg of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in the wastewater of the chromium electroplating plant.
Microbial reduction of hexavalent chromium by landfill leachate.	The reduction of hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) in municipal landfill leachates (MLL) and a non-putrescible landfill leachate (NPLL) was investigated. Complete Cr(VI) reduction was achieved within 17 days in a MLL when spiked with 100 mg l(-1) Cr(VI) or less. In the same period, negligible Cr(VI) reduction was observed in NPLL. In MLL, Cr(VI) reduction was demonstrated to be a function of initial Cr(VI) concentration and bacterial biomass and organic matter concentrations. The bacteria were observed to tolerate 250 mg l(-1) Cr(VI) in MLL and had an optimal growth activity at pH 7.4 in a growth medium. The MLL also possessed an ability to sequentially reduce Cr(VI) over three consecutive spiking cycles.
Comparison of biotic and abiotic treatment approaches for co-mingled perchlorate, nitrate, and nitramine explosives in groundwater.	Biological and abiotic approaches for treating co-mingled perchlorate, nitrate, and nitramine explosives in groundwater were compared in microcosm and column studies. In microcosms, microscale zero-valent iron (mZVI), nanoscale zero-valent iron (nZVI), and nickel catalyzed the reduction of RDX and HMX from initial concentrations of 9 and 1 mg/L, respectively, to below detection (0.02 mg/L), within 2 h. The mZVI and nZVI also degraded nitrate (3 mg/L) to below 0.4 mg/L, but none of the metal catalysts were observed to appreciably reduce perchlorate ( approximately 5 mg/L) in microcosms. Perchlorate losses were observed after approximately 2 months in columns of aquifer solids treated with mZVI, but this decline appears to be the result of biodegradation rather than abiotic reduction. An emulsified vegetable oil substrate was observed to effectively promote the biological reduction of nitrate, RDX and perchlorate in microcosms, and all four target contaminants in the flow-through columns. Nitrate and perchlorate were biodegraded most rapidly, followed by RDX and then HMX, although the rates of biological reduction for the nitramine explosives were appreciably slower than observed for mZVI or nickel. A model was developed to compare contaminant degradation mechanisms and rates between the biotic and abiotic treatments.
Cyclodextrin-linked alginate beads as supporting materials for Sphingomonas cloacae, a nonylphenol degrading bacteria.	Calcium alginate beads covalently linked with alpha-cyclodextrin (alpha-CD-alginate beads) were prepared and examined for their ability to serve as a supporting matrix for bacterial degradation of nonylphenol, an endocrine disruptor. Column chromatographic experiment using alpha-CD-alginate beads with diameter of 657+/-82 microm and with degree of CD substitution of 0.16 showed a strong affinity for nonylphenol adsorption. Although addition of alpha-CD (2.7-27 mM) to the culture broth of Sphingomonas cloacae retarded nonylphenol degradation, the immobilized bacteria on the CD-alginate beads were effective for the degradation. Batch degradation tests using the immobilized bacteria on alpha-CD-alginate-beads showed 46% nonylphenol recovery after 10-day incubation at 25+/-2 degrees C, and the recovery reached to about 17% when wide and shallow incubation tubes were used to facilitate uptake of the viscous liquid of nonylphenol on the surface of the medium. Scanning electron microscopic photographs revealed that multiplicated bacteria was present both on the surface and inside the beads and the matrix of CD-alginate was stable and suitable during 10-day incubation.
Decolorization of textile azo dyes by newly isolated halophilic and halotolerant bacteria.	Studies were carried out on the decolorization of textile azo dyes by newly isolated halophilic and halotolerant bacteria. Among the 27 strains of halophilic and halotolerant bacteria isolated from effluents of textile industries, three showed remarkable ability in decolorizing the widely utilized azo dyes. Phenotypic characterization and phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA sequence comparisons indicate that these strains belonged to the genus Halomonas. The three strains were able to decolorize azo dyes in a wide range of NaCl concentration (up to 20%w/v), temperature (25-40 degrees C), and pH (5-11) after 4 days of incubation in static culture. They could decolorize the mixture of dyes as well as pure dyes. These strains also readily grew in and decolorized the high concentrations of dye (5000 ppm) and could tolerate up to 10,000 ppm of the dye. UV-Vis analyses before and after decolorization and the colorless bacterial biomass after decolorization suggested that decolorization was due to biodegradation, rather than inactive surface adsorption. Analytical studies based on HPLC showed that the principal decolorization was reduction of the azo bond, followed by cleavage of the reduced bond.
An interpretation of potential scale dependence of the effective matrix diffusion coefficient.	Matrix diffusion is an important process for solute transport in fractured rock, and the matrix diffusion coefficient is a key parameter for describing this process. Previous studies have indicated that the effective matrix diffusion coefficient values, obtained from a large number of field tracer tests, are enhanced in comparison with local values and may increase with test scale. In this study, we have performed numerical experiments to investigate potential mechanisms behind possible scale-dependent behavior. The focus of the experiments is on solute transport in flow paths having geometries consistent with percolation theories and characterized by multiple local flow loops formed mainly by small-scale fractures. The water velocity distribution through a flow path was determined using discrete fracture network flow simulations, and solute transport was calculated using a previously derived impulse-response function and a particle-tracking scheme. Values for effective (or up-scaled) transport parameters were obtained by matching breakthrough curves from numerical experiments with an analytical solution for solute transport along a single fracture. Results indicate that a combination of local flow loops and the associated matrix diffusion process, together with scaling properties in flow path geometry, seems to be an important mechanism causing the observed scale dependence of the effective matrix diffusion coefficient (at a range of scales).
Factors controlling BTEX and chlorinated solvents plume length under natural attenuation conditions.	Natural attenuation is presently used at numerous sites where groundwater is contaminated. In order to simulate this attenuation, reactive transport models are often used but they are quite complex and depend on both physical and chemical conditions in the aquifer. As complex numerical models cannot be used to study all possible cases, we develop here analytical solutions to draw general conclusions. Our strategy, called MIKSS (Mixed Instantaneous and Kinetics Superposition Sequence), allows the calculation of the concentrations of all reacting substances in a plume. It is an extension of the superimposition principle that is able to treat the case of joint kinetics and instantaneous reactions. The basic equations have been extended to treat different reactions that occur in the plume core and at its fringe. At first we consider one organic substance degraded under all oxidising conditions (toluene for instance). For this problem the size of the plume depends on the reduced source width and on the ratio of the organic substance concentration to the sum of the electron acceptors' concentrations. For several BTEX substances having different degradation behaviour the formulation is similar, but leads to quite different plume lengths for each substance. Contrary to the case of one substance, the plumes can be quite long and may not satisfy the target risk level. For chlorinated solvents we developed a specific approach to take under consideration all reactions and particularly the competition for hydrogen. A formula is given to assess the size of the plume core, i.e. the zone with highly reducing conditions. The factors influencing the core length are the same as for BTEX (source width, dispersivity, organic carbon content). The size of the TCE plume is calculated from the plume core length and the kinetic constant of TCE degradation. Using assumptions of degradation constants for DCE and VC it is also possible to calculate the longitudinal concentration profile of these substances. The degradation of moderately substituted solvents under oxic conditions reduces the size of their plumes but under these conditions TCE becomes the major threat. Among the conditions studied in this paper, very few chlorinated solvents sites can lead to a negligible risk at an acceptable distance from the source.
Treatment of turkey processing wastewater with sand filtration.	This research investigated the feasibility of coarse/fine sand filtration for removing organic materials from turkey processing wastewater. Sand filtration was tested with three organic and hydraulic loadings. Six two-layer sand bioreactors were in three groups, each with 5 cm layer of pea gravel at the bottom to support layers of fine sand (46 cm) and coarse sand (15 cm) to a height of 66 cm. The bioreactors were inoculated with a mixture of 20% (vol/vol) of wastewater lagoon sludge, 40% (vol/vol) of turkey processing wastewater, and 40% (vol/vol) of BOD(5) dilution water before starting the column operation with turkey processing wastewater. The wastewater contained 1270+/-730 mg COD/L and was applied to each sand bioreactor at hydraulic loading rates of <or= 264, 132 and 66 L/m(2)/day. Each group comprised duplicate columns with the identical hydraulic loading. A commercially available detergent, Ivory, was added to the wastewater at 0.04% (wt/vol). Maximum treatment efficiencies were reached within a week. The removal of TOC and BOD(5) was >94% during 80 days of column operation at low and medium hydraulic loading rates (132 L/m(2)/day). The removal at the highest hydraulic loading rate (264 L/m(2)/day) declined after the appearance of a black zone in the top layer of fine sand on day 30 for one reactor and day 50 for the other. The sand filtration in this study represents a feasible treatment for turkey processing wastewater and its efficiency and the life span of the process are associated with the extent of hydraulic loading of the sand bioreactors.
The kinetics of the removal of nitrogen and organic matter from parboiled rice effluent by cyanobacteria in a stirred batch reactor.	The aim of this research was to evaluate the kinetics of the removal of nitrogen and organic matter from parboiled rice effluent by the cyanobacteria Aphanothece microscopica Ngeli. From the results obtained, it was verified that maximum efficiency for the removal of organic matter expressed as COD and total nitrogen (N-TKN) occurred after 15 h of cultivation, being 83.44% and 72.74, respectively. The scale-up process indicated that the volume of the estimated reactor would be 100.2m(3), containing parboiled rice effluent and biomass.
Modelling the long-term performance of zero-valent iron using a spatio-temporal approach for iron aging.	Zero-valent iron (ZVI) permeable reactive barriers (PRBs) have become popular for the degradation of chlorinated ethenes (CEs) in groundwater. However, a knowledge gap exists pertaining to the longevity of ZVI. The present investigation addresses this situation by suggesting a numerical simulation model that is intended to be used in conjunction with field or column tests in order to describe long-term ZVI performance at individual sites. As ZVI aging processes are not yet completely understood and are still subject to research, we propose a phenomenological modelling technique instead of a common process-based approach. We describe ZVI aging by parameters that characterise the extent and rate of ZVI reactivity change depending on the propagation of the precipitation front through ZVI. We approximate degradation of CEs by pseudo-first order kinetics accounting for the formation of partially dechlorinated products, and describe ZVI reactivity change by scaling the degradation rate constants. Three independent modelling studies were carried out to test the suitability of the conceptual and numerical model to describe the observations of accelerated column tests. All three tests indicated that ZVI reactivity declined with an increasing number of exchanged pore volumes. Measured and modelled concentrations showed good agreement, thereby proving that resolving spatial as well as temporal changes in ZVI reactivity is reasonable.
Supplementing Bacillus sp. RS1 with Dechloromonas sp. HZ for enhancing selenate reduction in agricultural drainage water.	Cost and efficiency are two important factors considered in the remediation of Se-contaminated agricultural drainage water through bacterial reduction of soluble Se(VI) to insoluble Se(0). Bacillus sp. RS1 isolated from rice straw was assessed for its ability to use inexpensive molasses to reduce Se(VI) in agricultural drainage water containing NO3- levels of 0, 50, 100, 250, and 500 mg/L. The results showed that Se(VI) (1000 microg/L) was almost entirely reduced to Se(IV) (62.7%) and Se(0) (36.4%) by Bacillus sp. RS1 in synthetic agricultural drainage (SAD) water without the presence of NO3-. The reduction Se(VI) to Se(0) was limited in the SAD water with NO3- levels of 100, 250, and 500 mg/L. The addition of Dechloromonas sp., a NO3- reducer, to the SAD water not only increased NO3- removal, but also enhanced Se(VI) reduction by Bacillus sp. RS1. During an 8-day experiment, 98-99% of the added Se(VI) was reduced to Se(0) with small amounts of Se(IV) and Se(-II) in the SAD water containing 100 and 250 mg/L NO3-. The addition of Dechloromonas sp. HZ to the natural agricultural drainage water also significantly increased the reduction of Se(VI) (748 microg/L) by Bacillus sp. RS1, with a production of Se(0) (65%) and Se(-II) (32%). These results suggest that a combination of Bacillus sp. RS1 with Dechloromonas sp. HZ has great potential with the use of inexpensive molasses to remediate Se-contaminated agricultural drainage water containing relatively high NO3- levels.
Adsorption and absorption of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to rice roots.	Rice roots and surrounding air, soil and water samples were collected for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) analysis. The rice roots were separated into lateral roots and nodal roots, and the PAH concentration in the former was found to be higher than that in the latter. In addition, root physiological characteristics including root biotic mass, root lipid content and specific surface area are also discussed. When normalizing the total, adsorption and absorption PAH fractions on a dry root weight basis to root biomass, root lipid, and surface area bases respectively, the differences between PAHs in the two types of roots diminished by 2 to 3 times on average. Results from sequential extraction indicated that PAHs were more easily absorbed by interior rice roots than adsorbed on the surface. In addition, more than 60% of total PAHs accumulated in root tissue for both lateral and nodal roots. However, the results were highly related to the solvent used, extraction time and methodology. Correlation analysis between bioconcentration factors (root over environment) and K(OA), K(OW) showed water to be more significant for PAH adsorption in rice roots than other environmental media.
Enhancing cell survival of atrazine degrading Rhodococcus erythropolis NI86/21 cells encapsulated in alginate beads.	To develop a method to produce beads with encapsulated Rhodococcus erythropolis NI86/21 with high cell density, extended shelf life, ease of handling and good atrazine degradation capabilities in both liquid and in agricultural soil.
Exoenzymes of Trametes versicolor can metabolize coplanar PCB congeners and hydroxy PCB.	Two fractions containing the oxidase activity toward 2,2'-azinobis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonate) (ABTS) were obtained using ion-exchange DEAE-Sepharose column chromatography of the culture fluid of white-rot fungus, Trametes versicolor. These two fractions can reduce the level of coplanar PCB congeners (Co-PCBs). The ABTS oxidase in the first fraction passed through the DEAE-Sepharose column. The ABTS oxidase in the second fraction was adsorbed to the column at <pH 5.6. Overall, the first fraction has a higher activity to reduce each level of Co-PCBs than the second fraction does. In equally chlorinated congeners, non-ortho congeners were less metabolized than ortho congeners; a 4-hydroxy-pentachlorobiphenyl (hydroxy PeCB) was more susceptible to metabolism than a structurally related non-hydroxy PeCB or HxCB.
Bioremediation of tetrachloroethylene-contaminated groundwater in a model aquifer: effects on green frogs (Rana clamitans) and Xenopus laevis as potential wetland receptors.	Recent regulations require that the ecological effects of microorganisms introduced into the environment, such as for groundwater bioremediation, be assessed prior to their utilization. A native anuran (Rana clamitans) and a model anuran (Xenopus laevis) were used as potential wetland receptors of tetrachloroethylene (PCE)-contaminated groundwater, undergoing three bioremediation treatments: natural attenuation (NA), biostimulation (ST), and bioaugmentation (AU). Eggs of both species were exposed acutely (96 h) to remediated effluents. Xenopus tadpoles were chronically exposed to the effluents for 100 days and were screened for the presence of bacterial pathogens. There was no impact on the survivorship of the frogs exposed either acutely or chronically to the NA, ST, or AU effluents; nor was there any evidence of bacterial infection found, with the exception of control individuals. The results of these exposures suggest that bioremediation with KB-1trade mark culture poses a minimal threat to anuran development and survivorship.
Different compensatory mechanisms in two metal-accumulating aquatic macrophytes exposed to acute cadmium stress in outdoor artificial lakes.	Mechanisms underlying cadmium (Cd) detoxification were compared in two aquatic macrophytes commonly used in phytoremediation, namely Pistia stratiotes L. and Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms. To simulate Cd pollution in the open environment, plants growing in outdoor artificial lakes were exposed for 21d to either 25 or 100microM Cd, in two consecutive years. Toxicity symptoms were absent or mild in both species. Metal accumulation was much higher in the roots of P. stratiotes, whereas in E. crassipes a comparatively higher fraction was translocated to the leaves. In both species, Cd was neither included in phenolic polymers or Ca-oxalate crystals, nor altered the levels of Cd-complexing organic acids. Glutathione levels were constitutively remarkably higher and much more responsive to Cd exposure in P. stratiotes than in E. crassipes. Abundant phytochelatin synthesis occurred only in P. stratiotes, both in roots and in leaves. In E. crassipes, on the other side, the constitutive levels of some antioxidant enzymes and ascorbate were higher and more responsive to Cd than in P. stratiotes. Thus, in these two aquatic plants grown in the open, different detoxification mechanisms might come into play to counterbalance Cd acute stress.
Low-temperature anaerobic biological treatment of toluene-containing wastewater.	Two expanded granular sludge bed-anaerobic filter (EGSB-AF) bioreactors, R1 and R2, were operated at 15 degrees C for the treatment of toluene-contaminated volatile fatty acid-based wastewater. The seed inoculum and the R1 reactor were unexposed to toluene, prior to and during the trial, respectively. Both reactors were operated at a hydraulic retention time of 24h at applied organic loading rates of 0.71-1.43kg chemical oxygen demand (COD)m(-3)d(-1). Toluene was supplemented to the R2 influent at concentrations of 5-104 mg toluenel(-1) (solubilised in ethanol). Bioreactor performance was evaluated by COD and toluene removal efficiency, and the methane content of biogas (%). Specific methanogenic activity and toxicity assays were employed to investigate the activity and toluene toxicity thresholds of key trophic groups, respectively, within the seed and reactor biomass samples. COD and toluene removal efficiencies of 70-90% and 55-99%, respectively, were achieved during the 630-d trial. Metabolic assays suggested that a psychrotolerant H(2)/CO(2)-utilizing methanogenic community developed in the toluene-degrading biomass. The results indicate the viability of low-temperature anaerobic digestion for the treatment of wastewater containing toluene.
Oxidative stress in response to xenobiotics in the blue mussel Mytilus edulis L.: evidence for variation along a natural salinity gradient of the Baltic Sea.	Blue mussels (Mytilus edulis L.) collected at three sampling sites in each of three geographical regions (South, Middle, North) along the permanent longitudinal South-North salinity gradient of the Baltic Sea, were exposed for 10 days to copper (35ppb) or 95 octane petrol (0.3 per thousand). During the experiment, they were maintained at the respective sampling site salinity. Scope for growth (SFG) was determined, and biochemical stress markers (protein carbonyl groups, disulfide bond formation, and glutathione transferase (GST), and catalase (CAT) activities) were investigated in gill tissue upon termination of the experiment. Treatment and regional effects for SFG and protein carbonyl groups were all significant for petrol. The largest increase in protein carbonyl groups was observed in the North. Mussels from the southern, more saline ( approximately 7 per thousand) region had the highest SFG, and displayed the largest SFG decrease in response to treatment, indicating that they had the most energy available for allocation to stress response. They also displayed the least increase in the level of protein carbonyl groups. Mussels from the Northern, less saline ( approximately 5%) region had the highest degree of protein carbonyl groups in response to both treatments, and lowest average SFG. Silver stained diagonal gels for samples from one sampling site in South and North, respectively, demonstrated differences in disulfide bond profiles for both stress treatments. There was also a regional difference in the number of protein disulfides observed on diagonal gels. The most diverse protein disulfide response was found in South. No treatment related effects on GST and CAT activities were observed. We suggest that both SFG and protein carbonyl groups show that geographical difference in stress susceptibility, previously established between the North and the Baltic Seas, also apply on a regional scale within the Baltic Sea, along the salinity gradient.
Lower than expected mercury concentration in piscivorous African sharptooth catfish Clarias gariepinus (Burchell).	The concentrations of total mercury (THg), stable isotopes of nitrogen (delta(15)N) and carbon (delta(13)C), and the diet of the African sharptooth catfish Clarias gariepinus in Lake Awassa, Ethiopia, were studied from January 2003 to February 2004. Values of the delta(15)N were used as an index of trophic position in four length groups and compared to actual stomach contents. The diet of C. gariepinus within the length range of 201-600 mm L(T) mainly consisted of the small barb Barbus paludinosus, aquatic insects, and mollusks. The proportion of fish prey in the diet was 60% by volume, irrespective of fish size. The differences in delta(15)N values of individuals within and between length classes were less than 3 per thousand, and were not significantly related to total length, showing the similarity in trophic niche of the different sizes, which corresponded to recorded stomach contents. Mercury concentrations were in the range of 0.002-0.154 mg kg(-1) ww, and had no significant relationship to total length. Hence, even large specimens of C. gariepinus have Hg values below the WHO threshold of 0.2 mg kg(-1) ww. The slope of the regression line between log [Hg] and delta(15)N was small, 0.06, indicating the absence of trophic shifts and biomagnification of Hg in larger specimens in our samples. The low Hg concentrations in C. gariepinus compared to the Hg concentrations in other piscivorous fish species in Lake Awassa, such as Barbus intermedius and B. paludinosus, may be due to its dependence on invertebrate preys at small size, diet switching towards low Hg prey fish at larger size, and growth biodilution owing to higher growth rate.
MRP2 and acquired tolerance to inorganic arsenic in the kidney of killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus).	We used proximal tubules isolated from the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus, to examine the effect of environmentally relevant, sublethal levels of arsenic on the function and expression of MRP2, an ABC transporter that transports xenobiotics into urine, including arsenic-glutathione conjugates. Exposure of fish to arsenic as sodium arsenite (4-14 days) increased both MRP2 expression in the apical membrane of proximal tubules and MRP2-mediated transport activity. The level of MRP2 mRNA was not affected, suggesting a posttranslational mechanism of action. Acute exposure of proximal tubules isolated from control fish to 75-375 ppb arsenic decreased mitochondrial function (inner membrane electrical potential). However, in tubules from fish that were preexposed to arsenic (4-14 days), no such effect on mitochondrial function was observed. Thus, chronic in vivo exposure to arsenic induces mechanisms that protect proximal tubules during subsequent arsenic exposure. Upregulation of MRP2 expression and activity is one likely contributing factor.
Reproductive responses of male fathead minnows exposed to wastewater treatment plant effluent, effluent treated with XAD8 resin, and an environmentally relevant mixture of alkylphenol compounds.	On-site, continuous-flow experiments were conducted during August and October 2002 at a major metropolitan wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to determine if effluent exposure induced endocrine disruption as manifested in the reproductive competence of sexually mature male fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas). The fathead minnows were exposed in parallel experiments to WWTP effluent and WWTP effluent treated with XAD8 macroreticular resin to remove the hydrophobic-neutral fraction which contained steroidal hormones, alkylphenolethoxylates (APEs), and other potential endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs). The effluent composition varied on a temporal scale and the continuous-flow experiments captured the range of chemical variability that occurred during normal WWTP operations. Exposure to WWTP effluent resulted in vitellogenin induction in male fathead minnows, with greater response in October than in August. Concentrations of ammonia, APEs, 17beta-estradiol, and other EDCs also were greater in October than in August, reflecting a change in effluent composition. In the October experiment, XAD8 treatment significantly reduced vitellogenin induction in the male fathead minnows relative to the untreated effluent, whereas in August, XAD8 treatment had little effect. During both experiments, XAD8 treatment removed greater than 90% of the APEs. Exposure of fish to a mixture of APEs similar in composition and concentration to the WWTP effluent, but prepared in groundwater and conducted at a separate facility, elicited vitellogenin induction during both experiments. There was a positive relation between vitellogenin induction and hepatosomatic index (HSI), but not gonadosomatic index (GSI), secondary sexual characteristics index (SSCI), or reproductive competency. In contrast to expectations, the GSI and SSCI increased in males exposed to WWTP effluent compared to groundwater controls. The GSI, SSCI, and reproductive competency were positively affected by XAD8 treatment of the WWTP effluent.
Completely autotrophic nitrogen-removal over nitrite in lab-scale constructed wetlands: evidence from a mass balance study.	A mass-balance study was carried out to investigate the transformation of nitrogenous pollutants in vertical flow wetlands. Landfill leachate containing low BOD, but a high concentration of ammonia, was treated in four wetland columns under predominately aerobic conditions. Influent total nitrogen in the leachate consisted mainly of ammonia with less than 1% nitrate and nitrite, and negligible organic nitrogen. There was a substantial loss of total nitrogen (52%) in one column, whereas other columns exhibited zero to minor losses (<12%). Net nitrogen loss under study conditions was unexpected. Correlations between pH, nitrite and nitrate concentrations indicated the removal of nitrogen under study conditions did not follow the conventional, simplistic, chemistry of autotrophic nitrification. Through mass-balance analysis, it was found that CANON (Completely Autotrophic Nitrogen-removal Over Nitrite) was responsible for the transformation of nitrogen into gaseous form, thereby causing the loss of nitrogen mass. The results show that CANON can be native to aerobic engineered wetland systems treating wastewater that contains high ammonia and low BOD.
A novel reductive dehalogenase, identified in a contaminated groundwater enrichment culture and in Desulfitobacterium dichloroeliminans strain DCA1, is linked to dehalogenation of 1,2-dichloroethane.	A mixed culture dechlorinating 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA) to ethene was enriched from groundwater that had been subjected to long-term contamination. In the metagenome of the enrichment, a 7-kb reductive dehalogenase (RD) gene cluster sequence was detected by inverse and direct PCR. The RD gene cluster had four open reading frames (ORF) showing 99% nucleotide identity with pceB, pceC, pceT, and orf1 of Dehalobacter restrictus strain DSMZ 9455(T), a bacterium able to dechlorinate chlorinated ethenes. However, dcaA, the ORF encoding the catalytic subunit, showed only 94% nucleotide and 90% amino acid identity with pceA of strain DSMZ 9455(T). Fifty-three percent of the amino acid differences were localized in two defined regions of the predicted protein. Exposure of the culture to 1,2-DCA and lactate increased the dcaA gene copy number by 2 log units, and under these conditions the dcaA and dcaB genes were actively transcribed. A very similar RD gene cluster with 98% identity in the dcaA gene sequence was identified in Desulfitobacterium dichloroeliminans strain DCA1, the only known isolate that selectively dechlorinates 1,2-DCA but not chlorinated ethenes. The dcaA gene of strain DCA1 possesses the same amino acid motifs as the new dcaA gene. Southern hybridization using total genomic DNA of strain DCA1 with dcaA gene-specific and dcaB- and pceB-targeting probes indicated the presence of two identical or highly similar dehalogenase gene clusters. In conclusion, these data suggest that the newly described RDs are specifically adapted to 1,2-DCA dechlorination.
Impact of bioaugmentation with a consortium of bacteria on the remediation of wastewater-containing hydrocarbons.	It has been observed that hydrocarbon treated wastewaters still contain high COD and a number of intermediates. This suggests that the required catabolic gene pool for further degradation might be absent in the system or, that its titer value is not significant enough. By providing the desired catabolic potential, the overall efficiency of the treatment system can be improved. This study aims to demonstrate this concept by bioaugmentation of a lab-scale reactor treating refinery wastewater with a consortium having the capacity to complement the alkB genotype to the available microbial population.
Detection, diversity and expression of aerobic bacterial arsenite oxidase genes.	The arsenic (As) drinking water crisis in south and south-east Asia has stimulated intense study of the microbial processes controlling the redox cycling of As in soil-water systems. Microbial oxidation of arsenite is a critical link in the global As cycle, and phylogenetically diverse arsenite-oxidizing microorganisms have been isolated from various aquatic and soil environments. However, despite progress characterizing the metabolism of As in various pure cultures, no functional gene approaches have been developed to determine the importance and distribution of arsenite-oxidizing genes in soil-water-sediment systems. Here we report for the first time the successful amplification of arsenite oxidase-like genes (aroA/asoA/aoxB) from a variety of soil-sediment and geothermal environments where arsenite is known to be oxidized. Prior to the current work, only 16 aroA/asoA/aoxB-like gene sequences were available in GenBank, most of these being putative assignments from homology searches of whole genomes. Although aroA/asoA/aoxB gene sequences are not highly conserved across disparate phyla, degenerate primers were used successfully to characterize over 160 diverse aroA-like sequences from 10 geographically isolated, arsenic-contaminated sites and from 13 arsenite-oxidizing organisms. The primer sets were also useful for confirming the expression of aroA-like genes in an arsenite-oxidizing organism and in geothermal environments where arsenite is oxidized to arsenate. The phylogenetic and ecological diversity of aroA-like sequences obtained from this study suggests that genes for aerobic arsenite oxidation are widely distributed in the bacterial domain, are widespread in soil-water systems containing As, and play a critical role in the biogeochemical cycling of As.
Detection of anaerobic toluene and hydrocarbon degraders in contaminated aquifers using benzylsuccinate synthase (bssA) genes as a functional marker.	Benzylsuccinate synthase (Bss) is the key enzyme of anaerobic toluene degradation and has been found in all anaerobic toluene degrading bacterial isolates tested. However, only a few pure cultures capable of anaerobic toluene oxidation are available to date, and it is important to understand the relevance of these model organisms for in situ bioremediation of hydrocarbon-contaminated aquifers. Due to their phylogenetic dispersal, it is not possible to specifically target anaerobic toluene degraders using marker rRNA genes. We therefore established an assay targeting a approximately 794 bp fragment within the Bss alpha-subunit (bssA) gene, which allows for the specific detection and affiliation of both known and unknown anaerobic degraders. Three distinct tar-oil-contaminated aquifer sites were screened for intrinsic bssA gene pools in order to identify and compare the diversity of hydrocarbon degraders present at these selected sites. We were able to show that local diversity patterns of degraders were entirely distinct, apparently highly specialized and well-adapted to local biogeochemical settings. Discovered at one of the sites were bssA genes closely related to that of Geobacter spp., which provides evidence for an importance of iron reduction for toluene degradation in these sediments. Retrieved from the other two sites, dominated by sulfate reduction, were previously unidentified bssA genes and also deeply branching putative bssA homologues. We provide evidence for a previously unrecognized diversity of anaerobic toluene degraders and also of other hydrocarbon degraders using fumarate-adding key reactions in contaminated aquifers. These findings enhance our current understanding of intrinsic hydrocarbon-degrading microbial communities in perturbed aquifers and may have potential for the future assessment and prediction of natural attenuation based on degradation genes.
Arsenic methylation, urinary arsenic metabolites and human diseases: current perspective.	Arsenic can cause cancerous and non-cancerous human diseases. Inorganic arsenic from drinking water is the most common source of human exposure. Pentavalent arsenate can be reduced to trivalent arsenite in the blood, which is taken up mainly in the liver and metabolized by a sequence of reduction and oxidative methylation. A proportion of the inorganic arsenicals together with methylated metabolites are excreted in urine. Analyses of the urinary arsenic profile can give a hint to the methylation capacity of exposed individuals. All studies evaluating the association between urinary arsenic profiles and human diseases nowadays measure mainly the inorganic arsenate and arsenite and the two organic forms of methylated metabolites: the pentavalent form of monomethylarsonic acid (MMAV) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAV). A review of the current literature suggests that reduced methylation capacity with increased MMAV percentage, decreased DMAV percentage, or decreased DMAV/MMAV is associated with skin lesions, skin cancer, bladder cancer, peripheral vascular disease, muscle cramps and structural chromosome aberrations in peripheral lymphocytes obtained from exposed subjects. The detection of the recently identified more toxic trivalent forms of methylated metabolites in urine awaits further confirmation.
Biomarkers of contaminant exposure in Northern Pike (Esox lucius) from the Yukon River Basin, Alaska.	As part of a larger investigation, northern pike (n = 158; Esox lucius) were collected from ten sites in the Yukon River Basin (YRB), Alaska, to document biomarkers and their correlations with organochlorine pesticide (total p,p'-DDT, total chlordane, dieldrin, and toxaphene), total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and elemental contaminant (arsenic, cadmium, copper, lead, total mercury, selenium, and zinc) concentrations. A suite of biomarkers including somatic indices, hepatic 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity, vitellogenin concentrations, steroid hormone (17B- ustradiol and 16-kebtestosteront) concentrations, splenic macrophage aggregates (MAs), oocyte atresia, and other microscopic anomalies in various tissues were documented in YRB pike. Mean condition factor (0.50 to 0.68), hepatosomatic index (1.00% to 3.56%), and splenosomatic index (0.09% to 0.18%) were not anomalous at any site nor correlated with any contaminant concentration. Mean EROD activity (0.71 to 17.51 pmol/min/mg protein) was similar to basal activity levels previously measured in pike and was positively correlated with selenium concentrations (r = 0.88, P < 0.01). Vitellogenin concentrations in female (0.09 to 5.32 mg/mL) and male (<0.0005 to 0.097 mg/mL) pike were not correlated with any contaminant, but vitellogenin concentrations >0.01 mg/mL in male pike from multiple sites indicated exposure to estrogenic compounds. Mean steroid hormone concentrations and percent oocyte atresia were not anomalous in pike from any YRB site. Few site differences were significant for mean MA density (1.86 to 6.42 MA/mm(2)), size (812 to 1481 microm(2)), and tissue occupied (MA-%; 0.24% to 0.75%). A linear regression between MA-% and total PCBs was significant, although PCB concentrations were generally low in YRB pike (< or =63 ng/g), and MA-% values in female pike (0.24% to 0.54%) were lower than in male pike (0.32% to 0.75%) at similar PCB concentrations. Greater numbers of MAs were found as zinc concentrations increased in YRB female pike, but it is unlikely that this is a causative relationship. Histological abnormalities observed in gill, liver, spleen, and kidney tissues were not likely a result of contaminant exposure but provide information on the general health of YRB pike. The most common histologic anomalies were parasitic infestations in various organs and developing nephrons and nephrocalcinosis in posterior kidney tissues. Overall, few biomarker responses in YRB pike were correlated with chemical contaminant concentrations, and YRB pike generally appeared to be healthy with no site having multiple anomalous biomarker responses.
Toxicity and bioaccumulation of cadmium and lead in Salvinia cucullata.	The toxicity and accumulation of heavy metals, cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) in aquatic fern, Salvinia cucullata were studied. Plants were cultured in Hoagland's medium which was supplemented with 0.5,1,2, and 4 mg/l of Cd and 5, 10, and 40 mg/l of Pb and were separately harvested after 2,4,6, and 8 days. The toxicity symptoms of Cd and Pb to S. cucullata showed chlorosis on leaves. There were significant derceases in the relative growth, biomass productivity and total chlorophyll content when the exposure time and concentration were increased. The accumulation study showed the significant increases of both metals when the exposure time and concentration were increased. The roots of S. cucullata had higher Cd and Pb contents than leaves suggesting that the metals were bound to the root cells and were partially transported to the leaves.
A model for the simulation of the SHARON process: pH as a key factor.	The SHARON process allows partial nitrification of wastewaters with high ammonium content and, when coupled with the Anammox process, represents a more sustainable alternative for N-removal than a conventional nitrification-denitrification. In this work, a mathematical model describing a continuously aerated SHARON reactor is presented. Special attention was given to the pH, because it affects substrates availability and inhibition phenomena, implementing an algorithm for its calculation. Since ammonium-oxidizing and nitrite-oxidizing organisms are inhibited by their own substrates, ammonia and nitrous acid respectively, Haldane kinetics was used in both nitrification steps. A preliminary evaluation of the model using historical experimental data generated in a lab-scale SHARON reactor, fed with synthetic substrate, is also presented, corroborating that the quality of the obtained effluent is highly dependent on pH.
Effects of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and sludge retention time (SRT) on the treatment of nitrobenzene in AMBR/CSTR reactor systems.	The effect of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and solid retention time (SRT) on the biodegradation of a synthetic wastewater containing nitrobenzene was investigated in a sequential anaerobic migrating blanket reactor (AMBR) and aerobic completely stirred tank reactor (CSTR) system. Reactor performance was evaluated at six different HRTs (1,1.5,2,2.5,3.5,5.19 and 10.38 days) and at six different SRTs (32,53,76,217,415 and 932 days). The influent COD and nitrobenzene concentration were kept constant at 3000 mg l(-1) and 60 mg l(-1), respectively, during continuous operation. The maximum COD removal efficiency was found to be 92% at a HRT of 10.38 days and a SRT of 932 days in AMBR reactor. However, nitrobenzene removal efficiencies were found to be 99.9% through all HRTs and SRTs in AMBR reactor. Most of the influent COD and nitrobenzene concentrations were removed in first compartment of AMBR. The total and methane gas production rates increased from 2760 ml day(-1) to 11760 ml day(-1) and from 1300 ml day(-1) to 3331 ml day(-1), respectively, as the HRT was decreased from 10.38 to 1 day in AMBR. However, methane percentage decreased from 47% to 28% with decreased HRTs and SRTs. The methanogens inhibition was observed at lower HRTs. pH values in the compartments and the effluent of AMBR was between optimum values. TVFA concentrations in effluent of AMBR were measured as zero until a HRT of 3.5 days. In the aerobic CSTR reactor, the COD removal efficiency decreased from 79% to 68% with decreased HRT from 6.79 to 0.67 days. It was found that the nitrobenzene transformed to aniline under anaerobic phase, and then the aniline mineralized in the oxidative stage, with efficiencies varying between 79% to 99.9%, in anaerobic/aerobic reactor system.
Biodegradation of pulp and paper mill effluent using anaerobic followed by aerobic digestion.	An experimental study was carried to find out the degradability of black liquor of pulp and paper mill wastewater for biomethanogenesis in continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) and followed by activated sludge process (ASP). Continuous stirred tank reactor was used in present study for anaerobic digestion of black liquor, while completely mixed activated sludge system was used for aerobic digestion. A maximum methane production was found up to 430 ml/day, chemical oxygen demand was reduced up to 64% and total volatile fatty acid increased up to 1500 mg/l from 975 mg/l at 7.3 pH, 37 degrees C temperature and 8 days hydraulic retention time during anaerobic digestion. In activated sludge process (aerobic digestion) chemical oxygen demand and biological oxygen demand reduction were 81% and 86% respectively at 72 hr hydraulic retention time.
Decolorization of kraft bleaching effluent by advanced oxidation processes using copper (II) as electron acceptor.	Two advanced oxidation processes (AOPs), TiO2/UV/O2 and TiO2/UV/Cu (II), were used to remove color from a Kraft bleaching effluent. The optimal decoloration rate was determined by multivariate analysis, obtaining a mathematical model to evaluate the effect among variables. TiO2 and Cu (II) concentrations and the reaction times were optimized. The experimental design resulted in a quadratic matrix of 30 experiments. Additionally, the pH influence on the color removal was determined by multivariate analysis. Results indicate that color removal was 94% at acidic pH (3.0) in the presence of Cu (11) as an electron acceptor. Under this condition, the biodegradation of the effluent increased from 0.3 to 0.6. Moreover, 70% of COD (chemical oxygen demand) was removed, and the ecotoxicity, measured by Daphnia magna, was reduced. Photocatalytic oxidation to remove the color contained in the Kraft mill bleaching effluent was effective under the following conditions: short reaction time, acidic pH values, and without the addition of oxygen due to the presence of Cu (II) in the effluent. Moreover, residual Cu (II) was a minimum (0.05.mg L(-1)) and was not toxic to the next biological stage. The experimental design methodology indicated that a quadratic polynomial model may be used to representthe efficiencyfor degradation of the Kraft bleach pulp effluent by a photocatalytic process.
Electron transfer from a solid-state electrode assisted by methyl viologen sustains efficient microbial reductive dechlorination of TCE.	The ability to transfer electrons, via an extracellular path, to solid surfaces is typically exploited by microorganisms which use insoluble electron acceptors, such as iron-or manganese-oxides or inert electrodes in microbial fuel cells. The reverse process, i.e., the use of solid surfaces or electrodes as electron donors in microbial respirations, although largely unexplored, could potentially have important environmental applications, particularly for the removal of oxidized pollutants from contaminated groundwater or waste streams. Here we show, for the first time, that an electrochemical cell with a solid-state electrode polarized at -500 mV (vs standard hydrogen electrode), in combination with a low-potential redox mediator (methyl viologen), can efficiently transfer electrochemical reducing equivalents to microorganisms which respire using chlorinated solvents. By this approach, the reductive transformation of trichloroethene, a toxic yet common groundwater contaminant, to harmless end-products such as ethene and ethane could be performed. Furthermore, using a methyl-viologen-modified electrode we could even demonstrate that dechlorinating bacteria were able to accept reducing equivalents directly from the modified electrode surface. The innovative concept, based on the stimulation of dechlorination reactions through the use of solid-state electrodes (we propose for this process the acronym BEARD: Bio-Electrochemically Assisted Reductive Dechlorination), holds promise for in situ bioremediation of chlorinated-solvent-contaminated groundwater, and has several potential advantages over traditional approaches based on the subsurface injection of organic compounds. The results of this study raise the possibility that immobilization of selected redox mediators may be a general strategy for stimulating and controlling a range of microbial reactions using insoluble electrodes as electron donors.
Cholinesterase and monoamine oxidase activity in relation to mercury levels in the cerebral cortex of wild river otters.	Mercury (Hg) is a global pollutant that is neurotoxic to many mammalian species. The present study was conducted to determine if the bioaccumulation of Hg by wild river otters (Lontra canadensis) could be related to variations in the activities of key neurochemical enzymes. River otters were collected from Ontario and Nova Scotia (Canada) during the trapping seasons, spanning 2002-2004, and their brains were dissected into the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. The activities of cholinesterase (ChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) were measured from each sample and correlated with concentrations of brain Hg from the same animal. Significant negative correlations were found between concentrations of brain Hg and ChE (total Hg: r= -0.42; MeHg: r= -0.33) and MAO (total Hg: r= -0.31; MeHg: r= -0.42) activity in the cerebral cortex. The scatterplots relating concentrations of brain Hg and enzyme activity in the cerebral cortex were wedge-shaped, and could be fitted with quantile regression modeling, suggesting that Hg may act as a limiting factor for ChE and MAO activity. No relationships were found in the cerebellum. These data suggest that environmentally relevant concentrations of Hg may influence the activities of ChE and MAO in the cerebral cortex of river otters, and by extension, other fish-eating mammals.
Effect of nutrient availability on the uptake of PCB congener 2,2',6,6'-tetrachlorobiphenyl by a diatom (Stephanodiscus minutulus) and transfer to a zooplankton (Daphnia pulicaria).	The objective of this study was to examine the importance of nutrient status of a diatom (Stephanodiscus minutulus) to the uptake of PCB congener #54 (2,2',6,6'-tetrachlorobiphenyl) and the subsequent transfer of PCB to a pelagic grazing zooplankton (Daphnia pulicaria). The algae, which were grown under different nutrient treatments, were then fed to a zooplankton to examine the subsequent food chain transfer of PCB. Algal cultures were grown for at least 2 weeks in a steady state condition in (1) non-limiting, (2) low-Si, (3) low-N or (4) low-P media. Steady state algal cultures were dosed with 0.2 microg L(-1) PCB and were sampled for PCB uptake after 24h. D. pulicaria were allowed to graze on these same cultures for 48 h before being analyzed for PCB body burdens. Low-Si (68% or 0.135 microg L(-1) of PCB) and low-P cultures (62%) had significantly higher percentage uptake of total PCB than the non-limiting (55%) or low-N (52%) treatments. When these values were divided by biochemical or elemental parameters, PCB per lipids (microg microg(-1)) had one of the lowest coefficients of variation (CV) across the four treatments, indicating their importance in PCB uptake. When equal biovolumes of the four different treatment cultures were fed to zooplankton, both the low-N (13.9 ng PCB mg wet weight(-1)) and the low-P (9.6 ng PCB mg wet weight(-1)) grazing D. pulicaria had significantly higher PCB per wet weight than the low-Si (5.6 ng PCB mg wet weight(-1)) and non-limited (2.6 ng PCB mg wet weight(-1)) grazing D. pulicaria. There were no significant differences between algal nutrient treatments in PCB per wet weight of zooplankton grazing on clean algal food in PCB contaminated media. This study indicates that uptake of PCB by phytoplankton can be significantly altered by nutrient availability which subsequently affects transfer to zooplankton, potentially through such responses as grazing rate and lipid assimilation.
Microbial community structure of ethanol type fermentation in bio-hydrogen production.	Three continuous stirred-tank reactors (CSTRs) were used for H(2) production from molasses wastewater at influent pH of 6.0-6.5 (reactor A), 5.5-6.0 (reactor B), or 4.0-4.5 (reactor C). After operation for 28 days, the microbial community formed ethanol type (C), propionate type (A) and ethanol-butyrate-mixed type (B) fermentation. The H(2) production rate was the highest for ethanol type fermentation, 0.40 l (g VSS)(-1) day(-1) or 0.45 l H(2) (g COD removed)(-1). Microbial community dynamics and diversity were analysed using double-gradient denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DG-DGGE). Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles indicated that the community structures changed quickly in the first 14 days. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the dominant bacterial groups were low G+C Gram-positive bacteria, Bacteroides, gamma-Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria; alpha-Proteobacteria, beta-Proteobacteria, delta-Proteobacteria and Spirochaetes were also presented as minor groups in the three reactors. H(2)-producing bacteria were affiliated with Ethanoligenens, Acetanaerobacterium, Clostridium, Megasphaera, Citrobacter and Bacteroides. An ethanol-based H(2)-producing bacterium, Ethanoligenens harbinense CGMCC1152, was isolated from reactor C and visualized using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to be 19% of the eubacteria in reactor C. In addition, isoenzyme activity staining for alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) supported that the majority of ethanol-producing bacteria were affiliated with Ethanoligenens in the microbial community.
Uncertainty in msPAF-based ecotoxicological effect factors for freshwater ecosystems in life cycle impact assessment.	Ecotoxicological effect factors are part of the analysis of relative impacts by chemical contaminants on ecosystems. Uncertainty distributions, represented by the 90% confidence interval, belonging to ecotoxicological effect factors for freshwater ecosystems were determined. This study includes 869 high production volume chemicals, related to 7 nonspecific toxic modes of action (TMoAs). The ecotoxicological effect factors are divided into a TMoA-specific part and a chemical-specific part. The 90% confidence interval of the TMoA-specific part of the effect factor ranges from 23 orders of magnitude for acrylate toxicity to 2 orders of magnitude for nonpolar narcosis. The range in the TMoA-specific part of the effect factor is mainly caused by uncertainty in the spread in toxic sensitivity between species (sigma(j)). Average uncertainty in the chemical-specific part of the effect factors depends on the number of species tested and ranges on average from a factor of 5 for more than 3 species tested to a factor of about 1,000 for 2 species tested. Average uncertainty in the ecotoxicological effect factors ranges from a factor of 100 for more than 3 species tested to a factor of nearly 10,000 for 2 species tested. It is recommended that the ecotoxicological effect factor of a chemical is based on toxicity data of at least 4 species.
Application of statistical experimental design to the treatment of bleaching kraft mill effluent using a mediated free radical system.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of chelator mediated-Fenton reaction (CMFR) on the chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal from bleaching kraft mill effluent. Effluent treatments were carried out to study the effect of the chelator 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), Fe3+ and H2O2 concentrations on COD removal. For optimization of COD removal, the methodology of statistical experimental design was employed. The estimated second-order polynomial multiple regression model predicts a maximum COD removal of 75.5% (COD/COD0 = 0.245) at the confidence level of 95%. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed a good coefficient of determination (R2) value of 0.90, thus ensuring a satisfactory adjustment of the second-order regression model with the experimental data. Indeed, CMFR proved to be a potential process to treat industrial effluents characterized by its high COD.
Semi-continuous treatment of recalcitrant anaerobic effluent from pulp and paper industry using hybrid pellets of Trametes versicolor.	The objective of this work was to evaluate the semi-continuous post-treatment of anaerobically-pre-treated weak black liquor (anaerobic effluent, AnE) by aerobic post-treatment using hybrid pellets of Trametes versicolor. The latter consisted of fungus immobilized onto holm oak sawdust (mixed or double pellets) or a mixture of holm oak sawdust and powdered activated carbon (triple pellets). First, a semicontinuous experiment was run to compare the effectiveness of triple and mixed pellets in agitated flasks for 15 cycles of 7 days each. A second extended batch test was implemented with 500 mL AnE and triple pellets to give 400 mg fungal biomass; some units were spiked with protease inhibitor. In the first experiment, triple pellets displayed consistently higher removal efficiencies of pollutant parameters than double pellets (10 to 15% higher), although overall averages were moderate and no statistical significance to the difference could be set because of the noise of fluctuations. Periodic fluctuations of removal were characterized by three periods of approximately six cycles each with maximum removals occurring at cycles 3-4, 7-9, 13, and 14. Evaluating pooled removals of the latter cycles showed that triple pellets were significantly more effective than double pellets, with removal efficiencies as high as 47% of COD, colour, and absorbance at 254 nm (A254). In general, protease activity seemed to increase in the third period (last six cycles), whereas activities of MnP, LiP and Lac significantly decreased. In the second experiment, pollutant removals and enzymatic activities of triple pellets with protease inhibitor were significantly higher than those of units without added protease inhibitor. These results indicate that protease could be the main cause of periodic falls of pollutant removal efficiencies found in the first experiment.
Application of anaerobic biological treatment for sulphate removal in viscose industry wastewater.	Long term lab-scale and bench-scale experiments were performed to investigate the feasibility of the anaerobic process to treat wastewater from a pulp and viscose fibre industry. Anaerobic wastewater treatment enables an advantageous combination of COD, sulphate and zinc removal from viscose wastewater. The aim of the investigations was to evaluate the influence of the free sulphide concentration on COD and sulphate removal efficiency and on the substrate competition between sulphate reducing and methanogenic bacteria. Since the wastewater did not contain enough COD for complete sulphate removal it was of major interest to determine favourable process conditions to steer the substrate competition in favour of sulphate reduction. Further experiments at bench-scale permitted us to evaluate applicable COD-loading rates and gain fundamental information about process stability and optimization for large-scale implementation. The present work will deal with the most relevant experimental results achieved and with important technological aspects of anaerobic treatment of viscose wastewater.
Impact of sewage discharging on environmental geochemical processes of nutrients in the Yangtze estuarine and tidal flats]	Influences of sewage discharge on environmental geochemical processes of nutrients were investigated in the Yangtze estuarine and tidal flats. The result indicated that the environmental elements obviously responded to sewage discharging. There was obvious enrichment of NH4+ -N, TIN, TDP, Ads-P, Fe-P and CFAP + Ca-P in overlying water, surface sediments and its pore waters adjacent to sewage outlets in the Yangtze Estuary. The enrichment of nutrients N and P was considered to be related not only to the inputs of nutrients from sewage outlets, but also to the changes of environmental factors induced by sewage discharge. On the contrary, there was no significant enrichment of NO(x)(-) -N in the tidal water, pore waters and surface sediments from the Yangtze Estuary, which showed that external inputs of nutrients was not the primary factor controlling the distributions of NO(x)(-) -N. It was also shown that the diffusive fluxes of nutrients N and P across sediment-water interface was markedly higher at sewage outlets than the control sampling sites in tidal flats, indicating that sewage discharge not only increased the accumulation of nutrients N and P in the tidal flats, but also strengthened the exchange processed of nutrients across tidal sediment-water interface.
Consumption of folate-related nutrients and metabolism of arsenic in Bangladesh.	Inorganic arsenic (InAs) is metabolized to monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), and this methylation facilitates urinary arsenic excretion. Previous studies suggest that persons with more complete methylation, characterized as greater proportions of DMA and lesser proportions of MMA and InAs in urine, have a lower risk of adverse arsenic-related health outcomes.
Improvement of water quality through biological denitrification.	The present study was undertaken to observe the effect of biological denitrification process on water quality parameters. The results obtained in the present investigations show that the value of pH and alkalinity was increased due to generation of alkalinity during biological denitrification process. The obtained value of the DO in the treated water was found lower than the supplied water, which indicates, DO was consumed by the bacterium. The COD of the treated water was nil, which shows that the organics have been consumed by the bacterium during the denitrification process. The biological reduction of nitrate-nitrogen (from 50.79 mg/L to 0.57 mg/L) was found to be lower than the tolerance limit prescribed by WHO without changing the water quality.
Sequencing Batch Reactor (SBR) treatment for simultaneous organic carbon and nitrogen removal--a laboratory study.	The performance of a laboratory-scale Sequencing Batch Reactor (SBR) has been studied in aerobic-anoxic sequence for simultaneous organic carbon and nitrogen removal. The reactor was operated under three different variations of aerobic-anoxic sequence, viz. 4+4, 5+3 and 3+5 hours with input solutions of soluble COD (SCOD) level 1000 +/- 100 mg/L and initial ammonia nitrogen of 40 and 90 mg/L. It has been observed that 85 to 92% of SCOD removal would be possible at the end of 8.0 hour of overall reaction period, irrespective of the length of the aerobic react period. In the case of 4+4 hour operating cycle, reasonable degree of nitrification (88-100%) and denitrification (73-75%), along with 91-94% of organic carbon removal have been achieved, which has been considered to be the optimum performance of the reactor.
Molecular cloning and characterization of cytochrome P450 and ferredoxin genes involved in bisphenol A degradation in Sphingomonas bisphenolicum strain AO1.	To clone and characterize the genes bisdA and bisdB, encoding Ferredoxin(bisd) (Fd(bisd)) and cytochrome P450(bisd) (P450(bisd)), respectively, from the bisphenol A (BPA) degrading Sphingomonas bisphenolicum strain AO1.
The influence of small-scale circum-neutral pH change on Cu-bioavailability and toxicity to an estuarine bivalve (Austriella cf plicifera) in whole-sediment toxicity tests.	In whole-sediment toxicity tests employing metal-spiked sediment, pH is a crucial determinant of sediment geochemistry, sediment-porewater metal partitioning and metal bioavailability to benthic organisms. Small pH changes in metal-spiked sediment may therefore have important implications for toxicity to organisms. The present study evaluated the effect of small-scale pH changes (pH 6.6, 7.2, 7.6) in Cu-spiked sediment on metal bioavailability and subsequent organism response. Variation of pH produced distinct changes in sediment geochemistry. Increasing pH from 6.6 to 7.6 resulted in lower redox potential, greater acid volatile sulfide (AVS) formation, and lower partitioning of Cu, Fe and Mn to the porewater. The minor pH changes and associated variation in sediment geochemistry modified reburial rates and copper accumulation by the bivalve, Austriella cf plicifera. Bivalve reburial was slowest for the 1400 microg g(-1) Cu-spiked pH 6.6 sediment, in which porewater copper concentrations exceeded 50 microg L(-1). Bivalve reburial was higher for pH 7.2 Cu-spiked sediments at all concentrations of copper investigated than in pH 6.6 and 7.6 sediments, where reburial rates were similar. Higher levels of bivalve activity suggest that A. cf plicifera may have an optimal pH range in the vicinity of pH 7.2. Tissue Cu concentrations varied with pH and appear dependent on spiked Cu concentration and organism activity. Strong linear correlations of tissue Cu concentration with all three Cu phases (overlying water, porewater and particulate phases), however, limited the ability to accurately determine the source of Cu uptake.
Decolorization of synthetic melanoidins-containing wastewater by a bacterial consortium.	The presence of melanoidins in molasses wastewater leads to water pollution both due to its dark brown color and its COD contents. In this study, a bacterial consortium isolated from waterfall sediment was tested for its decolorization. The identification of culturable bacteria by 16S rDNA based approach showed that the consortium composed of Klebsiella oxytoca, Serratia mercescens, Citrobacter sp. and unknown bacterium. In the context of academic study, prevention on the difficulties of providing effluent as well as its variations in compositions, several synthetic media prepared with respect to color and COD contents based on analysis of molasses wastewater, i.e., Viandox sauce (13.5% v/v), caramel (30% w/v), beet molasses wastewater (41.5% v/v) and sugarcane molasses wastewater (20% v/v) were used for decolorization using consortium with color removal 9.5, 1.13, 8.02 and 17.5%, respectively, within 2 days. However, Viandox sauce was retained for further study. The effect of initial pH and Viandox concentration on decolorization and growth of bacterial consortium were further determined. The highest decolorization of 18.3% was achieved at pH 4 after 2 day of incubation. Experiments on fresh or used medium and used or fresh bacterial cells, led to conclusion that the limitation of decolorization was due to nutritional deficiency. The effect of aeration on decolorization was also carried out in 2 L laboratory-scale suspended cell bioreactor. The maximum decolorization was 19.3% with aeration at KLa=2.5836 h(-1) (0.1 vvm).
Treatment of mixed domestic-industrial wastewater using cyanobacteria.	Alexandria Sanitary Drainage Company (ASDCO), Alexandria, Egypt has two primary treatment plants, the eastern and the western wastewater treatment plants (EWTP and WWTP) that receive mixed domestic-industrial influents and discharge into L. Mariut. The lake is subjected therefore to severe levels of pollution and dominated by members of cyanobacteria that can cope with the high pollution load in the lake water. Isolation and utilization of the locally generated cyanobacterial biomass for remediation processes of highly toxic pollutants offers a very efficient and cheap tool for governmental or private industrial activities in Alexandria and will generate a source of revenue in Egyptian localities. The main objective of the present study was to investigate the biodegradation and biosorption capacity of some potential cyanobacterial species dominating the lake ecosystem toward organic and inorganic contaminants polluting the primary-treated effluents of the EWTP and WWTP. The primary effluents were subjected to biological treatment using three axenic cyanobacterial strains (Anabaena oryzae, Anabaena variabilis and Tolypothrix ceytonica) as batch system for 7 days. Removal efficiencies (RE) of the different contaminants were evaluated and compared. Results confirmed the high efficiencies of the investigated species for the removal of the target contaminants which were species and contaminant-dependent. BOD5 and COD recorded 89.29 and 73.68% as maximum RE(s) achieved by Anabaena variabilis and Anabaena oryzae, respectively. The highest RE of the TSS recorded 64.37% achieved by Tolypothrix ceytonica, while 38.84% was recorded as the highest TSD RE achieved by Anabaena variabilis. Tolypothrix ceytonica also exhibited the highest RE for FOG recorded 93.75%. Concerning the contaminant metals, Tolypothrix ceytonica showed the highest biosorption capacity where 86.12 and 94.63% RE were achieved for Zn and Cu, respectively. In conclusion, results of the present study confirmed the advantageous potential of using the tested cyanobacterial species for the treatment of contaminated wastewater. Results also clearly showed the quality improvement of the discharged wastewater which in turn will eliminate or at least minimize the expected deterioration of the receiving environment.
Responses of the marine bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens to an excess of heavy metals: physiological and biochemical aspects.	A Pseudomonas fluorescens strain was isolated from oxic marine sediments obtained from the strand zone of the St Anne Bay (a moderately metal-contaminated site to the west of Cherbourg harbour). The strain, which exhibited a high tolerance to metal contamination when cultivated (minimal inhibitory concentration=950 microM [62 mg L(-1)] for Zn, 660 microM [42 mg L(-1)] for Cu, and 505 microM [57 mg L(-1)] for Cd), was further characterized by its physiological and biochemical responses to metal additions to the culture medium. Bacterial growth was significantly disturbed by 380 microM Zn (25 mg L(-1)), 315 microM Cu (20 mg L(-1)) and 90 microM Cd (10 mg L(-1)). The Zn-containing alkaline phosphatase was studied as an intoxication biomarker. Its activity was stimulated (+9%) by an excess of Zn, but inhibited by Cd (-55%) and Cu (-10%), these two elements could displace the native Zn or/and disturb the enzyme 3D-structure. Bacterial O(2) consumption was recorded as a global physiological response to metal stress. This parameter dropped with increasing Cd and Cu contamination (-49% and -45%, respectively, at 20 mg L(-1)). By contrast, Zn increased O2 consumption (approximately +40% for the different tested concentrations). The proteomes of bacteria grown in the presence or absence of 20 mg metal L(-1) were characterized by 2D-gel electrophoresis. The number of spots exhibiting a difference in intensity between the contaminated sample and the control was 65, 68, and 103, for Zn, Cu and Cd, respectively. Among them, 45, 61 and 82 spots respectively appeared de novo or increased in intensity, indicative of metal-stimulated synthesis, particularly for Cu and Cd. In summary, whereas Cd and Cu treatments both stressed cells and slowed down primary metabolism to differing extents, Zn has a stimulating action on several physiological and biochemical parameters.
Effect of glutathione and methionine on the distribution and methylic metabolism of arsenic speciation in mice exposed to arsenic through drinking water]	To explore the effect of glutathione and L-methionine on the distribution and methylic metabolism of arsenic speciation in the liver, blood and kidney of mice exposed to inorganic As through drinking water.
Microbial effects on phosphorus release in aquatic sediments.	Microbial effects on phosphorus release were studied for the sediments of Tianjin source water by controlling DO and pH. The results show that: (1) In sterilised water, phosphorus began to release when pH = 9.1 and the stable release rate was 9.51 mg/(d.m2). It indicates that microorganisms may utilise anaerobic iron respiration to release Fe-P. (2) With unsterilised water, phosphorus release rate is 2.14 mg/(d.m2) when pH = 6.5, 8.60 mg/(d.m2) when pH is uncontrolled, and gets to 8.51 mg/(d.m2) when pH = 9.1. This indicates that microorganisms can dissolve insoluble phosphates to accelerate the ion exchange of OH(-) and PO4(3-), which are derived from iron-bound ortho-P and aluminium-bound ortho-P.
Biogeochemical processes governing exposure and uptake of organic pollutant compounds in aquatic organisms.	This paper reviews current knowledge of biogeochemical cycles of pollutant organic chemicals in aquatic ecosystems with a focus on coastal ecosystems. There is a bias toward discussing chemical and geochemical aspects of biogeochemical cycles and an emphasis on hydrophobic organic compounds such as polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls, and chlorinated organic compounds used as pesticides. The complexity of mixtures of pollutant organic compounds, their various modes of entering ecosystems, and their physical chemical forms are discussed. Important factors that influence bioavailability and disposition (e.g., organism-water partitioning, uptake via food, food web transfer) are reviewed. These factors include solubilities of chemicals; partitioning of chemicals between solid surfaces, colloids, and soluble phases; variables rates of sorption, desorption; and physiological status of organism. It appears that more emphasis on considering food as a source of uptake and bioaccumulation is important in benthic and epibenthic ecosystems when sediment-associated pollutants are a significant source of input to an aquatic ecosystem. Progress with mathematical models for exposure and uptake of contaminant chemicals is discussed briefly.
Risk to humans of consuming metals in anchovy (Coilia sp.) from the Yangtze River Delta.	Concentrations of metals were determined in four species of anchovy (Coilia sp.) from the Yangtze River, Taihu Lake, and Hongze Lake in Jiangsu Province, China. Concentrations of Cr in anchovy fish muscle ranged from 2.6  10(-2) to 5.0 mg/kg ww, and Coilia nasus taihuensis in Jiaoshan, Taihu Lake contained the highest concentrations of Cr, which was almost 111-fold higher than the mean value at other locations. Concentrations of Pb ranged from 1.5  10(-2) to 1.3  10(-1) mg/kg ww. Comparisons of concentrations of lead (Pb) among the four species indicated that anadromous species contained higher concentrations of Pb than did freshwater species. However, concentrations of Pb in C. nasus from the Nanjing and Haimen locations in the Yangtze River were not significant higher than those of two freshwater species: C. nasus taihuensis from Taihu Lake and C. brachygnathus from Hongze Lake (Duncan's test,  = 0.05). While concentrations of Cd and Zn ranged from 7.0  10(-4) to 3.6  10(-3) mg/kg ww and 3.4 to 4.8 mg/kg ww, respectively, there were no significant differences in concentrations among the eight locations. The only concentration of the metals studied that exceeded the Chinese National Standard was Cr in Coilia from Jiaoshan, Taihu Lake, which was 2.5-fold higher than the standard. These results indicate that people who consume the genus Coilia are not at risk due to concentrations of metals, except Cr in C. nasus taihuensis from Jiaoshan in Taihu Lake. Concentrations of all of the metals studied except for Cr were similar to or less than those of metals in most other areas in the world.
Occurrence of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in fish: results of a national pilot study in the United States.	Pharmaceuticals and personal care products are being increasingly reported in a variety of biological matrices, including fish tissue; however, screening studies have presently not encompassed broad geographical areas. A national pilot study was initiated in the United States to assess the accumulation of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in fish sampled from five effluent-dominated rivers that receive direct discharge from wastewater treatment facilities in Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Orlando, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; and West Chester, Pennsylvania, USA. Fish were also collected from the Gila River, New Mexico, USA, as a reference condition expected to be minimally impacted by anthropogenic influence. High performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of pharmaceuticals revealed the presence of norfluoxetine, sertraline, diphenhydramine, diltiazem, and carbamazepine at nanogram-per-gram concentrations in fillet composites from effluent-dominated sampling locations; the additional presence of fluoxetine and gemfibrozil was confirmed in liver tissue. Sertraline was detected at concentrations as high as 19 and 545 ng/g in fillet and liver tissue, respectively. Gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of personal care products in fillet composites revealed the presence of galaxolide and tonalide at maximum concentrations of 2,100 and 290 ng/g, respectively, and trace levels of triclosan. In general, more pharmaceuticals were detected at higher concentrations and with greater frequency in liver than in fillet tissues. Higher lipid content in liver tissue could not account for this discrepancy as no significant positive correlations were found between accumulated pharmaceutical concentrations and lipid content for either tissue type from any sampling site. In contrast, accumulation of the personal care products galaxolide and tonalide was significantly related to lipid content. Results suggest that the detection of pharmaceuticals and personal care products was dependent on the degree of wastewater treatment employed.
Metal accumulation in marine bivalves under various tributyltin burdens.	In the present study, a field survey was conducted to measure the accumulation of butyltin, Cu, Zn, and Cd in green mussels (Perna viridis) and Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) at the regions along a tributyltin pollution gradient. A negative correlation was found between the tributyltin/total butyltin ratio (0.87-0.31) and tributyltin content (114-5,817 ng/g as tin dry wt) in oysters, while the Cu content (44.2-381 mg/kg dry wt) was positively correlated with the logarithm of tributyltin content during the summer and winter. This suggests that as the tributyltin burden increases, the rates of tributyltin metabolism may be elevated, leading to enhanced Cu accumulation. A similar accumulation pattern for Zn was also found in oysters. In mussels, however, the tributyltin/total butyltin ratio and the Cu and Zn contents remained relatively constant (~ 0.7, 12, and 100 mg/kg dry wt, respectively) regardless of the tributyltin burden. Clearly, the butyltin and Cu/Zn accumulation processes in oysters differ from those in mussels under tributyltin pollution. These observations provide valuable information for those who evaluate or compare tributyltin and/or Cu/Zn pollution using oysters and mussels as bioindicators.
Levels of organochlorine compounds in the Mediterranean blue mussel from the Adriatic Sea.	The distribution of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) was investigated in Mediterranean blue mussel collected at four locations in Mali Ston Bay few times a year in 20052007. OCPs were found in all samples and levels ranged between 0.07 and 7.58 ng g1 dry wt. Levels of PCBs ranged between 0 (below detection limit) and 21.55 ng g1 dry wt. For most analyzed compounds there were no significant level changes between the 3 years. Exceptions are decreased levels of -HCH, DDD, and PCB-138 and increased levels of -HCH and DDT in 2007. However, mussels from this area are applicable for human diet.
Application of the combination index (CI)-isobologram equation to study the toxicological interactions of lipid regulators in two aquatic bioluminescent organisms.	Pharmaceuticals in the aquatic environment do not appear singly and usually occur as complex mixtures, whose combined effect may exhibit toxicity to the aquatic biota. We report an environmental application of the combination index (CI)-isobologram equation, a method widely used in pharmacology to study drug interactions, to determine the nature of toxicological interactions of three fibrates toward two aquatic bioluminescent organisms, Vibrio fischeri and the self-luminescent cyanobacterial recombinant strain Anabaena CPB4337. The combination index-isobologram equation method allows computerized quantitation of synergism, additive effect and antagonism. In the Vibrio test, the fibrate combinations showed antagonism at low effect levels that turned into an additive effect or synergism at higher effect levels; by contrast, in the Anabaena test, the fibrate combinations showed a strong synergism at the lowest effect levels and a very strong antagonism at high effect levels. We also evaluated the nature of the interactions of the three fibrates with a real wastewater sample in the cyanobacterial test. We propose that the combination index-isobologram equation method can serve as a useful tool in ecotoxicological assessment.
PAH mineralization and bacterial organotolerance in surface sediments of the Charleston Harbor estuary.	Semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOCs) in estuarine waters can adversely affect biota but watershed sources can be difficult to identify because these compounds are transient. Natural bacterial assemblages may respond to chronic, episodic exposure to SVOCs through selection of more organotolerant bacterial communities. We measured bacterial production, organotolerance and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) mineralization in Charleston Harbor and compared surface sediment from stations near a known, permitted SVOC outfall (pulp mill effluent) to that from more pristine stations. Naphthalene additions inhibited an average of 77% of bacterial metabolism in sediments from the more pristine site (Wando River). Production in sediments nearest the outfall was only inhibited an average of 9% and in some cases, was actually stimulated. In general, the stations with the highest rates of bacterial production also were among those with the highest rates of PAH mineralization. This suggests that the capacity to mineralize PAH carbon is a common feature amongst the bacterial assemblage in these estuarine sediments and could account for an average of 5.6% of bacterial carbon demand (in terms of production) in the summer, 3.3% in the spring (April) and only 1.2% in winter (December).
Four marine-derived fungi for bioremediation of raw textile mill effluents.	Textile dye effluents pose environmental hazards because of color and toxicity. Bioremediation of these has been widely attempted. However, their widely differing characteristics and high salt contents have required application of different microorganisms and high dilutions. We report here decolorization and detoxification of two raw textile effluents, with extreme variations in their pH and dye composition, used at 20-90% concentrations by each of the four marine-derived fungi. Textile effluent A (TEA) contained an azo dye and had a pH of 8.9 and textile effluent B (TEB) with a pH of 2.5 contained a mixture of eight reactive dyes. The fungi isolated from mangroves and identified by 18S and ITS sequencing corresponded to two ascomycetes and two basidiomycetes. Each of these fungi decolorized TEA by 30-60% and TEB by 33-80% used at 20-90% concentrations and salinity of 15 ppt within 6 days. This was accompanied by two to threefold reduction in toxicity as measured by LC(50) values against Artemia larvae and 70-80% reduction in chemical oxygen demand and total phenolics. Mass spectrometric scan of effluents after fungal treatment revealed degradation of most of the components. The ascomycetes appeared to remove color primarily by adsorption, whereas laccase played a major role in decolorization by basidiomycetes. A process consisting of a combination of sorption by fungal biomass of an ascomycete and biodegradation by laccase from a basidiomycete was used in two separate steps or simultaneously for bioremediation of these two effluents.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers and their methoxylated metabolites in anchovy (Coilia sp.) from the Yangtze River Delta, China.	Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and their metabolites are toxic to animals, and concentrations of the PBDEs metabolites can exceed those of the parent materials. But no information was available on concentrations of PBDEs metabolites in the lower Yangtze River in the region around Jiangsu Province of China, which is heavily urbanized and industrialized area. The aims of this study were to determine whether PBDEs and their methoxylated PBDEs (MeO-PBDEs) were accumulated in Coilia sp. in this area and to investigate the potential sources for these two kinds of brominated organic pollutants.
Microbial utilization of the industrial wastewater pollutants 2-ethylhexylthioglycolic acid and iso-octylthioglycolic acid by aerobic gram-negative bacteria.	Industrial wastewater from the production of sulfur containing esters and the resulting products of this synthesis, 2-ethylhexylthioglycolic acid (EHTG) and iso-octylthioglycolic acid (IOTG), were deployed in this study to enrich novel bacterial strains, since no wastewater and EHTG or IOTG degrading microorganisms were hitherto described or available. In addition, nothing is known about the biodegradation of these thiochemicals. The effect of this specific wastewater on the growth behaviour of microorganisms was investigated using three well-known Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas putida, and Ralstonia eutropha). Concentrations of 5% (v/v) wastewater in complex media completely inhibited growth of these three bacterial strains. Six bacterial strains were successfully isolated, characterized and identified by sequencing their 16S rRNA genes. Two isolates referred to as Achromobacter sp. strain MT-E3 and Pseudomonas sp. strain MT-I1 used EHTG or IOTG, respectively, as well as the wastewater as sole source of carbon and energy for weak growth. More notably, both isolates removed these sulfur containing esters in remarkable amounts from the cultures supernatant. One further isolate was referred to as Klebsiella sp. strain 58 and exhibited an unusual high tolerance against the wastewater's toxicity without utilizing the contaminative compounds. If cultivated with gluconic acid as additional carbon source, the strain grew even in presence of more than 40% (v/v) wastewater. Three other isolates belonging to the genera Bordetella and Pseudomonas tolerated these organic sulfur compounds but showed no degradation abilities.
Properties of phenol-removal aerobic granules during normal operation and shock loading.	The physical structure and activity of aerobic granules, and the succession of bacterial community within aerobic granules under constant operational conditions and shock loading were investigated in one sequencing batch reactor over ten months. While the maturation phase of the granulation process began on day 30, the structure of microbial community changed markedly until after three months of reactor operation under constant conditions with a loading rate of 1.5 g phenol L(-1) day(-1). A shock loading of 6.0 g phenol L(-1) day(-1) from days 182-192 led to divergence of bacterial community, an inhibition of the biomass activity, and a decrease in phenol removal rate in the reactor. However, phenol was still completely removed under this disturbance. After the shock loading, the mean sizes of aerobic granules increased, and the activity of the microbial population within the granules decreased, although there appeared highly resilient for the dominant bacterial community of aerobic granules which mainly included beta-Proteobacteria. Correlation analysis suggested that biomass concentration and biomass loading were significantly related to the community composition of aerobic granules during the whole operational period. The development of a relatively stable bacterial community in aerobic granules implied that those distinct dominant microbes in aerobic granules were favorably selected and proliferated under the operational conditions.
Development of ecotoxicoproteomics on the freshwater amphipod Gammarus pulex: identification of PCB biomarkers in glycolysis and glutamate pathways.	PCBs are persistent organic pollutants largely distributed in the biosphere. Although their effects on vertebrates are well described, little is known about their action on freshwater invertebrate's metabolism. Gammarus pulex (Linn) was selected as an indicator model to develop a proteomic approach in order to characterize the effects of PCBs on the protein profile of this freshwater crustacean. Sublethal coplanar PCBs exposition and related 2D gel were performed. More than 560 spots were detected and a total of 21 proteins exhibiting significant expression differences in PCB exposed to G. pulex were identified by mass spectrometry. Database searches were conducted to relate the results to well-known metabolic pathways (pentose phosphate, cytoskeleton, energy, etc.). In particular, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and arginine kinase were found to be sensitive to the PCB exposition of G. pulex. The aim of the present study was to assess the biochemical responses and the metabolic changes in G. pulex following intoxication to coplanar PCB congeners CB77 and CB169 by a proteomic approach. This approach allowed us, by the identification of key proteins, to highlight important biochemical mechanisms disturbed by the presence of these contaminants in G. pulex.
Reciprocal enhancement of uptake and toxicity of cadmium and calcium in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver mitochondria.	The interactive effects of cadmium (Cd) and calcium (Ca) on energy metabolism in rainbow trout liver mitochondria were studied to test the prediction that Ca would protect against Cd-induced mitochondrial liability. Isolated rainbow trout liver mitochondria were energized with malate and glutamate and exposed to increasing concentrations (5-100 microM) of Cd and Ca singly and in combination at 15 degrees C. Accumulation of Cd and Ca in the mitochondria and mitochondrial respiration (oxygen consumption) rates were measured. Additionally, un-energized mitochondria were incubated with low doses (1 microM) of Cd and Ca singly and in combination, with time-course measurements of cation accumulation/binding and oxygen consumption rates. In energized actively phosphorylating mitochondria, the uptake rates of both Cd and Ca were dose-dependent and enhanced when administered concurrently. Upon low-dose incubation, Cd accumulation was rapid and peaked in 5 min, while no appreciable uptake of Ca occurred. Functionally, the resting (state 4, ADP-limited) respiration rate was not affected in the dose-response exposure, but it decreased remarkably on low-dose incubation. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-stimulated respiration (state 3) rate was impaired dose-dependently with maximal inhibitions (at the highest dose, 100 microM) of 32, 64 and 73% for Ca, Cd, and combined exposures, respectively. The combined effects of Ca and Cd suggested synergistic (more than additive) action and partial additivity of effects at low and higher doses of the two cations, respectively. Moreover, on a molar basis, Cd was twice as toxic as Ca to rainbow trout liver mitochondria and when combined, approximately 90% of the effects were attributable to Cd. The coupling efficiency, as measured by respiratory control ratio (RCR) and phosphorylation efficiency, measured as ADP/O ratio, both decreased as the exposure dosage and duration increased. In addition, Cd and Ca exposure decreased mitochondrial proton leak (state 4+ respiration) rates on prolonged exposure possibly by inhibiting processes that generate mitochondrial membrane potential, the force that drives proton leak. Overall these data suggest that the widely accepted theme that Ca and Cd are competitive antagonists does not hold for mitochondrial effects and that Cd and Ca cooperate to impair oxidative phosphorylation in rainbow trout liver mitochondria.
Comparison of stable isotope composition and inorganic and organic contaminant levels in wild and farmed bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus, in the Mediterranean Sea.	Stable isotope composition (delta(13)C and delta(15)N) and persistent pollutants, including heavy metals (Hg, Cd, Pb, As, Cu, Zn) and organochlorine compounds (PCBs, HCB and p,p'-DDE), were measured in muscle and liver tissues of wild and farmed bluefin tuna to investigate the changes occurring during the farming period and to assess the quality, in terms of contaminants, of the final product. At the end of farming, the food supplied was clearly integrated into the tuna tissues as derived from stable isotope signatures, and, contrarily to the literature findings obtained for other species, farmed tuna showed slight variations in persistent elements and chemical compounds in comparison with wild fish. The low tissue turnover of long-lived adult tuna together with the short farming period appeared to act to preserve the initial low contamination levels in the absence of new, elevated contamination sources (feed and environment), determining an acceptable quality of the final aquaculture product.
Sexual difference in PCB concentrations of coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch).	We determined polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations in 35 female coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) and 60 male coho salmon caught in Lake Michigan (Michigan and Wisconsin, United States) during the fall of 1994 and 1995. In addition, we determined PCB concentrations in the skin-on fillets of 26 female and 19 male Lake Michigan coho salmon caught during the fall of 2004 and 2006. All coho salmon were age-2 fish. These fish were caught prior to spawning, and therefore release of eggs could not account for sexual differences in PCB concentrations because female coho salmon spawn only once during their lifetime. To investigate whether gross growth efficiency (GGE) differed between the sexes, we applied bioenergetics modeling. Results showed that, on average, males were 19% higher in PCB concentration than females, based on the 1994-1995 dataset. Similarly, males averaged a 20% higher PCB concentration in their skin-on fillets compared with females. According to the bioenergetics modeling results, GGE of adult females was less than 1% higher than adult male GGE. Thus, bioenergetics modeling could not explain the 20% higher PCB concentration exhibited by the males. Nonetheless, a sexual difference in GGE remained a plausible explanation for the sexual difference in PCB concentrations.
Growth and transcriptional effect of dietary 2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (PBDE-47) exposure in developing zebrafish (Danio rerio).	In this study, zebrafish (Danio rerio) were fed food dosed with pure PBDE-47 (2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether) congener or a blank from 20 to 60 day post-hatch (dph). At 38 dph, half of the fish were sampled for body size measurements and gene expression analyzes (CYP1A1, VTG, TTR, D1, and TSH-beta). At 60 dph, body size was measured again for all fish remaining. Whole-fish histology was performed and the PBDE levels in fish were determined. PBDE treated fish was significantly smaller at 38 dph but not at 60 dph. No apparent histopathological effect was observed. In the PBDE treated fish, there was a weak induction of CYP1A1 mRNA transcription, but not of the other genes. The tissue levels of PBDE-47 were comparable to that found in other wild fish reported in the literature, indicating that our exposure level was ecologically relevant.
Spatial distribution of hexabromocyclododecanes (HBCDs), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and organochlorines in bivalves from Japanese coastal waters.	In order to elucidate the spatial distribution of brominated flame retardants (BFRs) in the Japanese coastal environment, hexabromocyclododecanes (HBCDs), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and organochlorines (OCs: PCBs, DDTs, CHLs, HCHs, HCB) were determined in bivalves (oysters and mussels) collected from Japanese coastal waters. HBCDs and PBDEs were detected in all samples analyzed. Concentration ranges of HBCDs were 12-5200 ng g(-1) lipid wt., followed by PCBs (20-3100 ng g(-1))>PBDEs (3.1-86 ng g(-1) lipid wt.). The highest concentration of HBCDs was found in the Osaka region. This result indicates that HBCDs are ubiquitous and predominant compounds in bivalves from the Japanese coastal waters. Since no species differences between oysters and mussels were observed for the bioaccumulation properties of HBCDs and PBDEs, oysters could be utilized for BFR contamination monitoring worldwide as an alternative to mussels. Global comparisons between oysters and mussels showed that HBCD concentrations in Japan are among the highest levels reported from Asia and Europe. Estimated dietary exposures of HBCDs and PBDEs through seafood were 0.45-34 ng kg body weight(-1)d(-1), and 0.054-6.8 ng kg body weight(-1)d(-1), respectively. These exposure levels were more than 1000 times lower than the lowest observable effects or no observable adverse effects levels for HBCDs and PBDEs, respectively.
Contaminant blubber burdens in Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) from two southeastern US estuarine areas: concentrations and patterns of PCBs, pesticides, PBDEs, PFCs, and PAHs.	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), chlorinated pesticides (i.e., dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and its metabolites, chlordanes (CHLs), dieldrin, hexachlorobenzene (HCB), and mirex), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs), and polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were measured in blubber biopsy samples collected from 139 wild bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) during 2003-2005 in Charleston (CHS), SC and the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), FL. Dolphins accumulated a similar suite of contaminants with summation operatorPCB dominating (CHS 64%, IRL 72%), followed by summation operatorDDT (CHS 20%, IRL 17%), summation operatorCHLs (CHS 7%; IRL 7%), summation operatorPBDE (CHS 4%, IRL 2%), PAH at 2%, and dieldrin, PFCs and mirex each 1% or less. Together summation operatorPCB and summation operatorDDT concentrations contributed approximately 87% of the total POCs measured in blubber of adult males. summation operatorPCBs in adult male dolphins exceed the established PCB threshold of 17mg/kg by a 5-fold order of magnitude with a 15-fold increase for many animals; 88% of the dolphins exceed this threshold. For male dolphins, CHS (93,980ng/g lipid) had a higher summation operatorPCBs geomean compared to the IRL (79,752ng/g lipid) although not statistically different. In adult males, the PBDE geometric mean concentration was significantly higher in CHS (5920ng/g lipid) than the IRL (1487ng/g). Blubber summation operatorPFCs concentrations were significantly higher in CHS dolphins. In addition to differences in concentration of PCB congeners, summation operatorPBDE, TEQ, summation operatorCHLs, mirex, dieldrin, and the ratios summation operatorDDE/ summation operatorDDT and trans-nonachlor/cis-nonachlor were the most informative for discriminating contaminant loads in these two dolphin populations. Collectively, the current summation operatorPCB, summation operatorDDT, and summation operatorPBDEs blubber concentrations found in CHS dolphins are among the highest reported values in marine mammals. Both dolphin populations, particularly those in CHS, carry a suite of organic chemicals at or above the level where adverse effects have been reported in wildlife, humans, and laboratory animals warranting further examination of the potential adverse effects of these exposures.
Bioaccumulation of mercury in the pelagic food chain of the Lake Baikal.	Mercury (Hg) concentrations were analyzed in the livers of Baikal seals and in plankton, zoobenthos and fish which constitute food items for the seals. Concentrations of Hg in the liver of Baikal seals were up to two orders of magnitude lower than those in seals inhabiting other lakes. The low levels of Hg are due to the low levels of the Hg in the fish from the family Comephoride, which reflect the very low concentrations of Hg in Baikal water. The development stage (pups and adults) and the sex of the seals have significant influence on their hepatic Hg concentrations. The differences between Hg accumulation in adult males, adult females and pups could be attributed to the reproductive cycle of the Baikal seals. In spite of low concentrations, Hg is characterized by high values of the concentration factor (CF) for the livers of for Baikal seals. Biomagnification factors (BMFs) suggest biomagnifications of Hg in the fish-seal trophic link.
PCBs and PBDEs in wild Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) in the Northern Patagonia, Chile.	This paper documents the accumulation and emerging levels of Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) found in the tissues of the migrating salmon species Oncorhynchus tshawytscha (Chinook salmon) in the Chilean Patagonia area. Even though salmon are not native to the southern hemisphere, reports indicate that Chinook salmon in the last few years have performed natural free-living style cycling, returning to rivers in the southern Patagonia area. Our study seeks to determine the presence and levels of PCB's and PBDE's in wild Chinook salmon in the northern part of the Chilean Patagonia, analyzing their relation with physiological parameters. Fish were sampled at the end of their entire life cycle when they returned to two principal rivers in the Aysen region in southern Chile. A number of fish (12) were sacrificed in situ and muscle samples were taken for PCBs measurements (sum 44 congeners) by gas chromatography electron capture detector (GC-ECD) and a number of PBDEs congeners, by gas chromatography mass spectrometry with negative chemical ionization detection (GC-MS NCI). Observed levels and patterns were characterized by concentrations of these POPs for PCBs ranging between 78 and 25.5 ng g(-1) wet weight and for PBDEs ranging between 272 and 1046 pg g(-1) wet weight, respectively. These ranges are among same levels reported in this same species in the northern hemisphere.
Biosorption of chromium from aqueous solution and electroplating wastewater using mixture of Candida lipolytica and dewatered sewage sludge.	In this study, the objective was to investigate Cr removal from aqueous solutions, as well as Cr, Cu, Ni and Zn from electroplating wastewaters by the mixture of Candida lipolytica and sewage sludge. The bioreduction ratios of Cr(VI) and the removal ratios of total Cr showed that initial pH, biosorbent dosage and contact time were the important parameters for Cr biosorption. The range of optimal pH for the mixture (1-5) was wider than C. lipolytica (1-4) and sewage sludge (2-4), respectively. Biosorption and bioreduction potentials of living C. lipolytica were better than those of cell wall and cytoplasm. Bonded hydroxyl group, CH(2) asymmetric stretch, amide I, amide II, amide III, secondary amide, pyridine(I)beta(C-H) and pyridine(II)beta(C-H) were detected in the biosorbent and they were the functional groups for binding Cr. The effect of Cu and Zn in combination was significant on the removal of total Cr and the bioreduction of Cr(VI).
Microbial atrazine breakdown in a karst groundwater system and its effect on ecosystem energetics.	In the absence of sunlight energy, microbial community survival in subterranean aquifers depends on integrated mechanisms of energy and nutrient scavenging. Because karst aquifers are particularly sensitive to agricultural land use impacts due to rapid and direct hydrologic connections for pollutants to enter the groundwater, we examined the fate of an exogenous pesticide (atrazine) into such an aquifer and its impact on microbial ecosystem function. Atrazine and its degradation product deethylatrazine (DEA) were detected in a fast-flowing karst aquifer underlying atrazine-impacted agricultural land. By establishing microbial cultures with sediments from a cave conduit within this aquifer, we observed two distinct pathways of microbial atrazine degradation: (i) in cave sediments previously affected by atrazine, apparent surface-derived catabolic genes allowed the microbial communities to rapidly degrade atrazine via hydroxyatrazine, to cyanuric acid, and (ii) in low-impact sediments not previously exposed to this pesticide, atrazine was also degraded by microbial activity at a much slower rate, with DEA as the primary degradation product. In sediments from both locations, atrazine affected nitrogen cycling by altering the abundance of nitrogen dissimulatory species able to use nitrogenous compounds for energy. The sum of these effects was that the presence of atrazine altered the natural microbial processes in these cave sediments, leading to an accumulation of nitrate. Such changes in microbial ecosystem dynamics can alter the ability of DEA to serve as a proxy for atrazine contamination and can negatively affect ecosystem health and water quality in karst aquifers.
Predicting bioaccumulation of PAHs in the trophic chain in the estuary region of Paranagua, Brazil.	The presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) compounds in sediment and water samples collected in the estuary area of Paranagua, southern Brazil, was investigated. There is a lot of port activity in the region. Recreational fishing is widespread; thus, there is concern about possible contamination by PAHs. The 16 priority PAHs were investigated, and only eight were found. The total concentration of PAHs ranged from 40.8 to 406.8 ng/g. High molecular weight were the most abundant, while PAHs with a low molecular weight were absent. There are suspicions that the main source of PAHs is combustion, but some uncertainties exist, and there may even be the presence of PAHs resulting from accidental spills of crude oil. Although the sediments contain PAHs, the amount is below the maximum concentrations allowed by the Brazilian environmental legislation, as well as the maximum levels at which adverse effects are observed. From the analytical results, a probable bioaccumulation was assessed in the local trophic chain using a mathematical model (Arnot and Gobas, Environ Toxicol Chem 23(10):2343-2355, 2004). The model showed that there is a possibility of biomagnification along the food chain selected. Three fishes with high local consumption were selected, and the concentration of some PAHs could be found in those fishes.
Assessing metal, protein, and DNA profiles in Labeo rohita from the Indus River in Mianwali, Pakistan.	This study assessed metals in water and different tissues of Labeo rohita and the impact of these metals on DNA and proteins as biomarkers of gills and muscles of these fish from three different polluted sites (reference or low = KW, medium = CH and high = SK) of the Indus River, Pakistan. The Mn, Pb, Cu, Zn, Hg, and Cr levels in water, gills, liver, muscles, and skin of these fish were compared with the international permissible levels. All metals except Pb and Hg in water were within the acceptable limits of drinking water. In contrast, the Mn, Hg, and Cr levels in the fish tissues were higher than their permissible limits for fish as a human food. Here, the gills contained higher metals than the other tissues. Different patterns of biomarkers were found in fish from these sites. While the gills did not show four protein bands (55, 30, 18.4, and 16.4 kDa), the muscles showed four new protein bands (100, 85, 45, and 20 kDa) for fish from the medium and high polluted sites as compared to the reference or low polluted site. The fish from the CH and SK sites of the Indus River contained low molecular weight DNA in their gills but high molecular weight DNA in their muscles when compared with the KW site. This study suggests that the proteins and DNA profiles of L. rohita could be used as biomarkers to assess the impact of potential environmental stressors such as metals on the freshwater systems.
Cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase systems in aquatic species: carcinogen metabolism and biomarkers for carcinogen and pollutant exposure.	High levels of polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) carcinogens commonly occur in aquatic systems where neoplasms arise in fish and other animals. Enzymes that transform PAHs can act in initiating these diseases and can indicate the contamination of fish by carcinogens and other pollutants. Cytochrome P-450 has similar roles in activating PAH carcinogens in fish and mammalian species. PAHs and many chlorinated hydrocarbons, e.g., polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) induce a form of cytochrome P-450 in fish that is the primary catalyst of PAH metabolism. The induction of this P-450 in fish can accelerate the disposition of hydrocarbons, but can also enhance the formation of carcinogenic derivatives of PAHs. Invertebrates have lower rates of PAH metabolism than fish. These rates are not obviously inducible by exposure to PAHs or PCBs. The lower rates of foreign compound metabolism contribute to higher pollutant residue levels in bivalve mollusks (clams, mussels, etc.) than in fish and may limit the involvement of some procarcinogens (requiring activation) in disease processes in invertebrates. The induction of P-450 forms can indicate the exposure of fish to PAHs, PCBs, and other toxic compounds. This is not restricted to carcinogens. Environmental induction has been detected in fish from contaminated areas by use of catalytic assay, antibodies to fish P-450, and cDNA probes that hybridize with P-450 messenger RNA. Application of these methods can provide sensitive biological monitoring tools that can detect environmental contamination of fish by some carcinogens and tumor promoters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Disposition of xenobiotic chemicals and metabolites in marine organisms.	Studies with several bottom fish species from urban waterways show that of the identified xenobiotic chemicals in bottom sediments, polycylic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are the most strongly associated with the prevalence of liver lesions, including neoplasms. Accordingly, there is concern about the transfer of contaminants, such as PAHs, from aquatic species to humans. Because PAHs exert their toxicity only after being biotransformed, increasing attention has been focused on the ability of aquatic organisms to metabolize these chemicals. Overall, the results of both laboratory and field studies show that generally low levels (nanograms per gram wet weight) of a few low molecular weight PAHs may be present in edible tissue of fish from contaminated areas and that high molecular weight PAHs, such as the carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene, will rarely be detected because of extensive metabolism. Additionally, the results from a few studies suggest that even though interactions between xenobiotics can affect both biochemical and physiological systems to alter the disposition of PAHs in fish, these interactions do not markedly change the relative proportions of metabolites to parent PAH in tissues. Thus, these studies clearly demonstrate that to obtain some insight into the questions of whether there is any risk to human health from consuming fish and crustaceans from urban areas, techniques must be developed that measure metabolites of carcinogens, such as PAHs, in edible tissue. Initial attempts may focus on semiquantitative methods that permit rapid assessment of the level of metabolites in edible tissues of fish and crustaceans from many urban areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of water cadmium concentrations on bioaccumulation and various oxidative stress parameters in Rhamdia quelen.	The effects of sublethal cadmium concentrations on oxidative stress parameters were evaluated in Rhamdia quelen. The fish were exposed to 0.44, 236, and 414 g l cadmium for 7 and 14 days, followed by the same time periods for recovery. Enzymes, such as catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione S-transferase (GST), and indicators of oxidative stress, such as thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) and protein carbonyl, were verified in fish tissues. In addition, the accumulation of cadmium was evaluated in these tissues. Our results indicate that CAT and GST levels decreased in gills after exposure periods associated with increased TBARS levels. In hepatic tissue, CAT, GST, TBARS, and protein carbonyl levels increased after 7 days of exposure, whereas SOD activity decreased after exposure for 14 days. In the kidney, TBARS levels decreased after exposure for 7 days and increased after exposure for 14 days. During the recovery periods, some variations persisted in gills, liver, and kidney. Cadmium accumulation was most significant in liver, followed by kidney and gills. These results indicate that cadmium concentrations studied invoke a stress response in silver catfish.
Differential patterns of accumulation and depuration of dietary selenium and vanadium during metamorphosis in the Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor).	Selenium (Se) and vanadium (V) are contaminants commonly found in aquatic systems affected by wastes derived from fossil fuels. To examine their effects on a widely distributed species of amphibian, we exposed gray tree frogs (Hyla versicolor) to Se (as SeO) or V (as NaVO) in their diet from the early larval period to metamorphosis. Concentrations of Se in Se-enriched food were 1.0 (Se control), 7.5 (Se low), and 32.7 (Se high) g/g dw. Concentrations of V in V-enriched food were 3.0 (V control), 132.1 (V low), and 485.7 (V high) g/g dw. Although we observed bioaccumulation of both metals throughout the larval period, no effects on growth, survival, metabolic rate, or lipid content were observed. Se concentrations in tissues did not vary among life stages, neither in Se low nor Se high treatments, such that maximum accumulation had occurred by the mid-larval period. In addition, there was no evidence of depuration of Se in either the Se low or the Se high treatments during metamorphosis. A strikingly different pattern of accumulation and depuration occurred in V-exposed individuals. In treatments V low and V high, maximum body burdens occurred in "premetamorphs" (i.e., animals with developed forelimbs but in which tail resorption had not begun), whereas body burdens in animals having completed metamorphosis were much lower and similar to those in larvae. These results suggest that compared with Se-exposed animals, V-exposed animals were able to depurate a substantial amount of accumulated V during the metamorphic period. In an ecologic context, it appears that amphibians exposed to Se during the larval period may serve as a vector of the metal to terrestrial predators, yet potential transfer of accumulated V to predators would largely be restricted to the aquatic habitat.
Polychlorinated biphenyls in farmed and wild Onchorhynchus kisutch and Onchorhynchus mykiss from the Chilean Patagonia.	This paper analyses the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in escaped: farmed and wild salmons in southern Chile, analysing their concentrations and congener profiles in two species (Oncorhynchus kisutch and Oncorhynchus mykiss).
What can we learn from monitoring PCBs in the European eel? A Belgian experience.	Between 2000 and 2007 pooled muscle tissue samples of the European eel (Anguilla anguilla) from 48 sites in Flanders (Belgium) were analysed for 30 polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners. There was a large variation between individual sites (range 11-7752 ng/g wet weight (ww) for the sum of the ICES 7 PCBs), eels from the River Meuse basin (mean 1545 ng/g ww) being considerably more polluted than those from the River Scheldt (615) and IJzer (61) basins. Overall, PCB 153, PCB 138 and PCB 180 were the most prominent congeners, however PCB patterns varied between the monitored locations. Analysis of the weight percentage of congeners demonstrates obvious differences in PCB composition between sites, indicating differential sources of pollution. Due to the variation in patterns, atmospheric fallout does not seem to be the main source of the PCB spread, but instead both local and upstream sources linked to industrial activities seem to be the main cause for PCB presence in Flanders. Considering the levels of the Sum 7 PCBs, eels are not compliant with the Belgian legal limits for consumption (75 ng/g ww) in 71% of the sites. Regular consumption of eels from polluted sites leads to a considerable excess of the WHO Acceptable Daily Intake value. Consumption of wild eels should by all means be prevented, as it presents risks for human health, especially for local anglers consuming their catch.
Biodegradation of monoethylene glycol on continuous bench scale reactor by bacterial consortia.	Wastewater containing monoethylene glycol (MEG) was investigated for biodegradation on a continuous bench scale bioreactor applying an activated sludge process. The bacterial consortia were prepared using three isolated bacterial strains and process conditions, viz. HRT, biomass concentration and air requirements were optimized to achieve efficient biodegradation. The results show 89% COD, 95% BOD reduction at a HRT of 10 h and organic loading of 0.0136 kg/day. The reduction in COD/BOD was related to removal of MEG concentration. The metabolic pathway was investigated in a batch mode and confirmed the formation of acetaldehyde and acetic acid as intermediates.
Biosynthesis of polyhydroxyalkanoate by Gamma proteobacterium WD-3 from volatile fatty acids.	The production of copolymers of poly--hydroxyalkanoates (PHA) is generally a high cost process. To reduce the production costs, inexpensive carbon sources such as volatile fatty acids (VFAs) from acidified wastewater can be used. Therefore, isolation of bacterial strains that can produce PHA copolymers using VFAs as a sole carbon source would be a beneficial alternative. In this study, a strain of PHA accumulating bacterium was isolated from the wastewater treatment plant of a soybean processing facility in Harbin. The strain was identified as -proteobacterium according to its 16S rDNA information and was originally named as strain WD-3. The strain accumulated a mass of PHA up to 45% of its dry cell weight when it was cultured under the optimum fermentation condition in this study when butyrate was used as the carbon source. In addition, WD-3 could synthesize PHA copolymers of poly-hydroxybutyrate and poly-hydroxyvalerate (PHV) either from C-even substrates or from C-odd substrates, and one-third of the copolymer was PHV. Results from this study demonstrated that small molecule organic acids can be used by the strain of WD-3 as the carbon source for growth and PHA production. The maximum PHA yield in the study was 0.45 g g(-1) dry cell.
Linking low-level stable isotope fractionation to expression of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase-encoding ethB gene for elucidation of methyl tert-butyl ether biodegradation in aerated treatment pond systems.	Multidimensional compound-specific stable isotope analysis (CSIA) was applied in combination with RNA-based molecular tools to characterize methyl tertiary (tert-) butyl ether (MTBE) degradation mechanisms occurring in biofilms in an aerated treatment pond used for remediation of MTBE-contaminated groundwater. The main pathway for MTBE oxidation was elucidated by linking the low-level stable isotope fractionation (mean carbon isotopic enrichment factor [(C)] of -0.37  0.05 and no significant hydrogen isotopic enrichment factor [(H)]) observed in microcosm experiments to expression of the ethB gene encoding a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase able to catalyze the oxidation of MTBE in biofilm samples both from the microcosms and directly from the ponds. 16S rRNA-specific primers revealed the presence of a sequence 100% identical to that of Methylibium petroleiphilum PM1, a well-characterized MTBE degrader. However, neither expression of the mdpA genes encoding the alkane hydroxylase-like enzyme responsible for MTBE oxidation in this strain nor the related MTBE isotope fractionation pattern produced by PM1 could be detected, suggesting that this enzyme was not active in this system. Additionally, observed low inverse fractionation of carbon ((C) of +0.11  0.03) and low fractionation of hydrogen ((H) of -5  1) in laboratory experiments simulating MTBE stripping from an open surface water body suggest that the application of CSIA in field investigations to detect biodegradation may lead to false-negative results when volatilization effects coincide with the activity of low-fractionating enzymes. As shown in this study, complementary examination of expression of specific catabolic genes can be used as additional direct evidence for microbial degradation activity and may overcome this problem.
Diversity and characterization of mercury-resistant bacteria in snow, freshwater and sea-ice brine from the High Arctic.	It is well-established that atmospheric deposition transports mercury from lower latitudes to the Arctic. The role of bacteria in the dynamics of the deposited mercury, however, is unknown. We characterized mercury-resistant bacteria from High Arctic snow, freshwater and sea-ice brine. Bacterial densities were 9.4  10(5), 5  10(5) and 0.9-3.1  10(3) cells mL(-1) in freshwater, brine and snow, respectively. Highest cultivability was observed in snow (11.9%), followed by freshwater (0.3%) and brine (0.03%). In snow, the mercury-resistant bacteria accounted for up to 31% of the culturable bacteria, but <2% in freshwater and brine. The resistant bacteria belonged to the Alpha-, Beta- and Gammaproteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Bacteriodetes. Resistance levels of most isolates were not temperature dependent. Of the resistant isolates, 25% reduced Hg(II) to Hg(0). No relation between resistance level, ability to reduce Hg(II) and phylogenetic group was observed. An estimation of the potential bacterial reduction of Hg(II) in snow suggested that it was important in the deeper snow layers where light attenuation inhibited photoreduction. Thus, by reducing Hg(II) to Hg(0), mercury-resistant bacteria may limit the supply of substrate for methylation processes and, hence, contribute to lowering the risk that methylmercury is being incorporated into the Arctic food chains.
Influence of fish size and sex on mercury/PCB concentration: importance for fish consumption advisories.	Fish advisories for polychlorinated biphenyls (total-PCBs) and mercury are often given on a length-specific basis and fish sex is usually not considered. The relationship between concentration and length is well established for mercury, however its suitability for total-PCBs and the influence of sex over the large scale covered by most monitoring programs is not well known. Here we use what is perhaps the largest consistent sport fish contaminant dataset to evaluate the relationship between total-PCB/mercury and length and sex. We evaluated seven of the most commonly consumed fishes from the Canadian Great Lakes and two Ontario (Canada) inland lakes. For mercury, the relationship between concentration and length was significant (p<0.05) in most fish species and locations. For total-PCB, this relationship was also generally significant in Chinook salmon and lake trout, which are the species with the most advisories for this compound. In contrast, significant relationships were found less often for whitefish, northern pike, smallmouth bass, walleye, and especially yellow perch. However, mercury usually drives fish consumption advisories for these species. Overall, our results support the protocol of issuing contaminant advice on a length-specific basis in fish monitoring programs with reasonable confidence when at least a moderate number of samples over the natural size range of a species are included in the analysis. Sex differences were common for walleye (males>females, p<0.05) but not other species, suggesting that an equal number of male and female walleye should be used in deriving fish advisories for walleye.
Biosynthesis of 2-methylisoborneol in cyanobacteria.	The production of odiferous metabolites, such as 2-methlyisoborneol (MIB), is a major concern for water utilities worldwide. Although MIB has no known biological function, the presence of the earthy/musty taste and odor attributed to this compound result in the reporting of numerous complaints by consumers, which undermines water utility performance and the safe and adequate provision of potable waters. Cyanobacteria are the major producers of MIB in natural waters, by mechanisms that have heretofore remained largely unstudied. To investigate the fundamental biological mechanism of MIB biosynthesis in cyanobacteria, the genome of a MIB-producing Pseudanabaena limnetica was sequenced using Next Generation Sequencing, and the recombinant proteins derived from the putative MIB biosynthetic genes were biochemically characterized. We demonstrate that the biosynthesis of MIB in cyanobacteria is a result of 2 key reactions: 1) a S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methylation of the monoterpene precursor geranyl diphosphate (GPP) to 2-methyl-GPP catalyzed by geranyl diphosphate 2-methyltransferase (GPPMT) and 2) further cyclization of 2-methyl-GPP to MIB catalyzed by MIB synthase (MIBS) as part of a MIB operon. Based on a comparison of the component MIB biosynthetic genes in actinomycetes and cyanobacterial organisms, we hypothesize that there have been multiple rearrangements of the genes in this operon.
Model-based design of different fedbatch strategies for phenol degradation in acclimatized activated sludge cultures.	Microbial degradation of phenol was studied using batch and fedbatch cultures of acclimatized activated sludge under a wide range of phenol (0-793 mg l(-1)) and biomass (0.74-6.7 g l(-1)) initial concentrations. As cell growth continued after total phenol removal, the production and later consumption of a main metabolic intermediate was considered the step governing the biodegradation kinetics. A model that takes explicitly into account the kinetics of the intermediate was developed by introducing a specific growth rate model associated with its consumption and the incorporation of a dual-substrate inhibitory effect on phenol degradation. Biomass growth and phenol removal were adequately predicted in all the cultures. Moreover, the model-based design of the fedbatch feeding strategies allowed driving separately the phenol degradation under substrate-limitation and substrate-inhibition modes. A sensitivity analysis was also performed in order to establish the importance of the parameters in the accuracy of model predictions.
Accumulation of lead by free and immobilized cyanobacteria with special reference to accumulation factor and recovery.	Lead accumulation by free and immobilized cyanobacteria, Lyngbya majuscula and Spirulina subsalsa was studied. Exponentially growing biomass was exposed to 1-20mg L(-1) of Pb(II) solution at pH 6, 7 and 8 for time periods ranging from 10 min to 48 h. L. majuscula accumulated 10 times more Pb (13.5 mg g(-1)) than S. subsalsa (1.32 mg g(-1)) at pH 6 within 3h of exposure to 20mg L(-1) Pb(II) solution and 76% of the Pb could be recovered using 0.1M EDTA. This chelator (2 M) did not influence Pb accumulation whereas 100 M citrate increased that of S. subsalsa 6- to 8-fold. L. majuscula filaments enmeshed in a glass wool packed in a column removed 95.8% of the Pb from a 5mg L(-1) Pb solution compared to free and dead biomass which removed 64 and 33.6% Pb respectively. A 92.5% recovery of accumulated Pb from the immobilized biomass suggests that repeated absorption-desorption is possible.
Carbaryl concentration gradients in realistic environments and their influence on our understanding of the tadpole food web.	Although exposure to pesticides has been correlated with amphibian declines, the mechanism of their role remains enigmatic. Declines have been associated with sublethal exposure, but few outdoor studies have evaluated impacts of low pesticide concentrations. Understanding the effects of a range of pesticide concentrations on amphibians in outdoor mesocosms provides a framework for both direct and indirect effects of exposure. Indirect effects are challenging to glean from lab studies, which typically lack a food web. Our design tested direct and indirect effects of exposure to the insecticide carbaryl on the American toad (Bufo americanus) and the northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens) tadpole survival and growth. We evaluated the effects of five concentrations (2.0, 0.2, 0.02, 0.002, and 0 mg carbaryl/l). Specifically, we predicted a threshold effect in which carbaryl concentrations great enough to reduce zooplankton abundance would have negative indirect effects on tadpoles, but the degree of these effects would not be concentration-specific. Similarly, we predicted that lower carbaryl concentrations (where zooplankton abundance was not reduced) would not differ in effect from controls. We did not observe a threshold effect or any negative effect on tadpoles. The highest carbaryl concentration expedited the time to metamorphosis in the northern leopard frogs by ~4 days. The toads were unaffected by any concentration of carbaryl. Despite significant reductions in zooplankton abundance and increases in phytoplankton abundance, periphyton abundance was unaffected by carbaryl. Taken together, these results suggest that despite evidence from studies using single concentrations of pesticides, trophic cascade models do not sufficiently explain sublethal effects on larval amphibians.
Combination of ion exchange system and biological reactors for simultaneous removal of ammonia and organics.	A novel process for a simultaneous removal of ammonia and organics was developed on the basis of ion exchange and biological reactions. From batch experiments, it was found out that NH(4)(+) could be removed effectively by combining cation exchange and biological nitrification showing 0.98 mg N/m(2)  s of a maximum flux. On the other hand, the removal of NO(3)(-) was 3.5 times faster than NH(4)(+) and the maximum flux was calculated to be 3.4 mg N/m(2)  s. The systems for NH(4)(+) and NO(3)(-) removal were combined for establishing the IEBR process. When the process was operated in a continuous mode, approximately 95.8% of NH(4)(+) was removed showing an average flux of 0.22 mg N/m(2)  s. The removal efficiency of total nitrogen was calculated as 94.5% whereas that of organics was 99.5%. It was concluded that the IEBR process would be effectively used for a simultaneous removal of NH(4)(+) and organics.
Dissimilatory perchlorate reduction: a review.	In the United States anthropogenic activities are mainly responsible for the wide spread perchlorate contamination of drinking water, surface water, groundwater, and soil. Even at microgram levels, perchlorate causes toxicity to flora and fauna and affects growth, metabolism and reproduction in humans and animals. Reports of antithyroid effects of perchlorate and its detection in common food items have raised serious public health concerns, leading to extensive decontamination efforts in recent years. Several physico-chemical removal and biological decontamination processes are being developed. Although promising, ion exchange is a non-selective and incomplete process as it merely transfers perchlorate from water to the resin. The perchlorate-laden spent resins (perchlorate 200-500 mg L(-1)) require regeneration resulting in production of concentrated brine (6-12% NaCl) or caustic waste streams. On the contrary, biological reduction completely degrades perchlorate into O(2) and innocuous Cl(-). High reduction potential of ClO(4)(-)/Cl(-) (E = 1.28 V) and ClO(3)(-)/Cl(-) pairs (E =1.03 V) makes these contaminants thermodynamically ideal e(-) acceptors for microbial reduction. In recent years unique dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria have been isolated and detailed studies pertaining to their microbiological, biochemical, genetics and phylogenetic aspects have been undertaken which is the subject of this review article while the various physico-chemical removal and biological reduction processes have been reviewed by others.
Field metabolomics and laboratory assessments of anaerobic intrinsic bioremediation of hydrocarbons at a petroleum-contaminated site.	Field metabolomics and laboratory assays were used to assess the in situ anaerobic attenuation of hydrocarbons in a contaminated aquifer underlying a former refinery. Benzene, ethylbenzene, 2-methylnaphthalene, 1,2,4- and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene were targeted as contaminants of greatest regulatory concern (COC) whose intrinsic remediation has been previously reported. Metabolite profiles associated with anaerobic hydrocarbon decay revealed the microbial utilization of alkylbenzenes, including the trimethylbenzene COC, PAHs and several n-alkanes in the contaminated portions of the aquifer. Anaerobic biodegradation experiments designed to mimic in situ conditions showed no loss of exogenously amended COC; however, a substantive rate of endogenous electron acceptor reduction was measured (55  8 M SO(4) day(-1)). An assessment of hydrocarbon loss in laboratory experiments relative to a conserved internal marker revealed that non-COC hydrocarbons were being metabolized. Purge and trap analysis of laboratory assays showed a substantial loss of toluene, m- and o-xylene, as well as several alkanes (C(6)-C(12)). Multiple lines of evidence suggest that benzene is persistent under the prevailing site anaerobic conditions. We could find no in situ benzene intermediates (phenol or benzoate), the parent molecule proved recalcitrant in laboratory assays and low copy numbers of Desulfobacterium were found, a genus previously implicated in anaerobic benzene biodegradation. This study also showed that there was a reasonable correlation between field and laboratory findings, although with notable exception. Thus, while the intrinsic anaerobic bioremediation was clearly evident at the site, non-COC hydrocarbons were preferentially metabolized, even though there was ample literature precedence for the biodegradation of the target molecules.
Molecular diversity and distribution of aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading anaerobes across a landfill leachate plume.	Natural attenuation of the mono-aromates benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene occurs under iron-reducing conditions in a leachate-contaminated aquifer near the Banisveld landfill, the Netherlands. The diversity of mono-aromate-degrading microorganisms was studied by targeting functional genes encoding benzylsuccinate synthase -subunit (bssA) and 6-oxocyclohex-1-ene-1-carbonyl-CoA hydrolase (bamA). Sixty-four bssA and 188 bamA variants were sequenced from groundwater sampled along the pollution plume in 1999 and 2004. Species containing bssA sequences closest affiliated (>91%) with the betaprotebacterium Georgfuchsia toluolica were the dominant alkylbenzene degraders (89% of bssA sequences). bssA genes were found at more than 10-fold lower copy numbers than bamA genes, of which only a small fraction (<2%) was closely related to the genes of Georgfuchsia. bamA gene diversity was high and bamA-based community composition was primarily affected by dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and ferrous iron concentrations. bamA sequences closest related to Geobacteraceae were dominantly (43.2%) observed and the presence of Geobacteraceae-related bamA sequences was associated with DOC. Our results indicate a key role for specialized Georgfuchsia spp. in the degradation of alkylbenzenes, whereas Geobacteraceae are involved in degradation of aromatics other than toluene and xylene.
Species- and size-specific variability of mercury concentrations in four commercially important finfish and their prey from the northwest Atlantic.	Total mercury was analyzed as a function of body length, season, and diet in four commercially and recreationally important marine fish, bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix), goosefish (Lophius americanus), silver hake (Merluccius bilinearis), and summer flounder (Paralichthys dentatus), collected from continental shelf waters of the northwest Atlantic Ocean. Mercury levels in the dorsal muscle tissue of 115 individuals ranged from 0.006 to 1.217 g/g (wet weight) and varied significantly among species. The relationship between predator length and mercury concentration was linear for bluefish and summer flounder, while mercury levels increased with size at an exponential rate for silver hake and goosefish. Mercury burdens were the highest overall in bluefish, but increased with size at the greatest rate in silver hake. Seasonal differences were detected for bluefish and goosefish with mercury levels peaking during summer and spring, respectively. Prey mercury burdens and predator foraging habits are discussed as the primary factors influencing mercury accumulation.
Ecology of twelve species of Thyasiridae (Mollusca: Bivalvia).	Benthic samples from coastal locations off Southwestern Norway were examined and the specimens of Thyasiridae were identified to species. A multivariate analysis based on 13 parameters was carried out and the environmental preferences of all thyasirid species present were determined. The potential of the Thyasiridae as indicators of organic enrichment was investigated by using direct canonical correspondence analyses to identify correlations between selected environmental parameters and the collected biological data. The presence of Thyasira sarsi together with a low biodiversity is a good indicator of organic enrichment. High thyasirid species diversity seems to indicate good environmental conditions, and single thyasirid species that lack symbiotic bacteria might also be useful as indicators of good environmental conditions.
CYP1A mRNA expression in redeye mullets (Liza haematocheila) from Bohai Bay, China.	Induction of cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) has been used as a biomarker in fish for monitoring aromatic and organic contaminants. In this study, a partial of CYP1A gene in redeye mullet (Liza haematocheila) was isolated and sequenced, and then a real-time quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction assay was developed for quantification of CYP1A mRNA normalized to -actin. The developed method was applied to detect CYP1A mRNA expression in redeye mullets collected from Nandaihe (reference site) and Dashentang (impacted site) in Bohai Bay, China. CYP1A mRNA expression values were significantly elevated in redeye mullets from Dashentang compared to a reference site--Nandaihe, which was correlated with the contents of different environmentally relevant pollutants in tissues, particularly with PCBs and PBDEs.
Bioremediation of soluble heavy metals with recombinant Caulobacter crescentus.	To achieve one-step separation of heavy metal ions from contaminated water, we have developed a novel bioremediation technology based on self-immobilization of the Caulobacter crescentus recombinant strain JS4022/p723-6H, which overexpresses hexahistidine peptide on the surface of the bacterial cells and serves as a whole-cell adsorbent for dissolved heavy metals. Biofilms formed by JS4022/p723-6H are effective at retaining cadmium from bacterial growth media or environmental water samples. Here we provide additional experiment data discussing the application potential of this new technology. Supplementation of calcium to the growth media produced robust JS4022/p723-6H cells by alleviating their sensitivity to chelators. After growth in the presence of 0.3% CaCl(2)2H(2)O, double the amount of JS4022/p723-6H cells survived the treatment with 2 mM EDTA. Free cells of JS4022/p723-6H effectively sequestered 51% of the total cadmium from a Lake Erie water sample at pH 5.4, compared to 37% retrieved by the control strain. Similar levels of adsorption were observed at pH 4.2 as well. Cells of JS4022/p723-6H were tolerant of acid treatment for 90 min at pH 1.1 or 120 min at pH 2.5, which provides an avenue for the convenient regeneration of the bacterial cells metal-binding capacity with acidic solutions. Designs of possible bioreactors and an operation system are also presented.
Analysis of denitrifier community in a bioaugmented sequencing batch reactor for the treatment of coking wastewater containing pyridine and quinoline.	The denitrifier community and associated nitrate and nitrite reduction in the bioaugmented and general sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) during the treatment of coking wastewater containing pyridine and quinoline were investigated. The efficiency and stability of nitrate and nitrite reduction in SBR was considerably improved after inoculation with four pyridine- or quinoline-degrading bacterial strains (including three denitrifying strains). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) based on the nosZ gene revealed that the structures of the denitrifier communities in bioaugmented and non-bioaugmented reactors were distinct and varied during the course of the experiment. Bioaugmentation protected indigenous denitrifiers from disruptions caused by pyridine and quinoline. Clone library analysis showed that one of the added denitrifiers comprised approximately 6% of the denitrifier population in the bioaugmented sludge.
DDT in endangered Galapagos sea lions (Zalophus wollebaeki).	We characterize for the first time the presence of DDT and its metabolites in tropical Galapagos sea lions (Zalophus wolleabeki). DDT concentrations in Galapagos sea lion pups sampled in 2005 and 2008 ranged from 16 to 3070 g/kg lipid. Concentrations of DDT in pups in 2008 averaged 525 g/kg lipid and were 1.9 times higher than that (281 g/kg lipid) detected in pups in 2005. These concentrations are lower than those reported in many pinnipeds elsewhere, comparable to those in Hawaiian monk seals, and higher than those in southern elephant seals. The health risk characterization showed that 1% of the male pups exceeded the p,p'-DDE toxic effect concentration associated with anti-androgenic effects reported in rats. The findings provide preliminary guidance on the relationship between DDT use and ecological impacts, serving as a reference point against which possible future impact of tropical DDT use can be assessed.
DNA damage in caged Gammarus fossarum amphipods: a tool for freshwater genotoxicity assessment.	The aim of this study was to propose a tool for freshwater environmental genotoxicity assessment using Gammarus fossarum, a high ecologically relevant species. In a first part, gammarids were caged upstream and downstream wastewater treatment plant effluent output. The sensitivity of genotoxic responses of haemocytes, oocytes and spermatozoa was compared using the Comet assay. Spermatozoa appeared to be the most sensitive, suitable and relevant cell type for genotoxicity risk assessment. In a second part, a watershed-scale study was conducted over 2 years to evaluate the applicability of our caging procedure. The genotoxic impact of a contamination was followed, taking into account seasonal variability. DNA damage in spermatozoa exhibited low basal level and low variability in control upstream sites, providing a reliable discrimination of polluted sites. Finally, DNA damage in caged G. fossarum has been proved to be a sensitive and reproducible tool for freshwater genotoxicity assessment.
Liver and breast feather mercury in piscivorous birds of the Caspian Sea: monitoring changes.	Mercury in the liver and breast feathers of the Common Cormorant, and in three species of Grebes from the southern coast of the Caspian Sea, were determined. The Common Cormorant had significantly more mercury in its tissues (liver: 8.5  1.5; feather 8  1 mg/kg dry weight) than Grebes (Great Crested Grebe: 3  0.5, 8  1.5; Black-necked Grebe: 3  0.5, 5.5  1; Little Grebe 2.5  0.5, 4  0.5). Unlike Common Cormorants, Grebes had less mercury in the liver than in breast feathers. Mercury in the Common Cormorant was not different between 2002 and 2008 collections. The mercury threshold for adverse effects is currently 5 ppm, which was exceeded by all but Little Grebes in this study.
Mercury in the Oriental sole (Brachirus orientalis) near a chlor-alkali plant in the Persian Gulf, Iran.	Total mercury in muscle and liver of Oriental sole from the largest inlet in the Persian Gulf was evaluated. Fish were collected from three channels of Moses Inlet near a chlor-alkali plant. Ahamdi and Jafari channels were closest to this plant and Ghanam was farther away. We sampled in August 2007 and February 2008. The overall estimated marginal mean for total mercury in sole tissue was 2.4  0.1 mg/kg wet weight. Mercury in fish was similar in August and February; but muscle from Ahmadi contained higher mercury in August (1  0.2) than in February (0.5  0.01). This trend was reversed in the liver (1.3  0.2 and 3.7  0.3).
Assessing the influence of the carbon oxidation-reduction state on organic pollutant biodegradation in algal-bacterial photobioreactors.	The influence of the carbon oxidation-reduction state (CORS) of organic pollutants on their biodegradation in enclosed algal-bacterial photobioreactors was evaluated using a consortium of enriched wild-type methanotrophic bacteria and microalgae. Methane, methanol and glucose (with CORS -4, -2 and 0, respectively) were chosen as model organic pollutants. In the absence of external oxygen supply, microalgal photosynthesis was not capable of supporting a significant methane and methanol biodegradation due to their high oxygen demands per carbon unit, while glucose was fully oxidized by photosynthetic oxygenation. When bicarbonate was added, removal efficiencies of 374% (20 days), 654% (11 days) and 100% (2 days) were recorded for CH(4,) CH(3)OH and C(6)H(12)O(6), respectively due to the additional oxygen generated from photosynthetic bicarbonate assimilation. The use of NO(3)(-) instead of NH(4)(+) as nitrogen source (N oxidation-reduction state of +5 vs. -3) resulted in an increase in CH(4) degradation from 0 to 333% in the absence of bicarbonate and from 374% to 100% in the presence of bicarbonate, likely due to a decrease in the stoichiometric oxygen requirements and the higher photosynthetic oxygen production. Hypothetically, the CORS of the substrates might affect the CORS of the microalgal biomass composition (higher lipid content). However, the total lipid content of the algal-bacterial biomass was 197% in the absence and 162% in the presence of bicarbonate.
Mercury and selenium content in Otolithes ruber and Psettodes erumei from Khuzestan Shore, Iran.	In this paper the level of selenium and mercury is analyzed in edible part and liver of Psettodes erumei and Otolithes ruber two commercial fish in Persian Gulf. The average concentration of Hg and Se in edible parts of P. erumei was 0.077  0.062 and 0.044  0.018 (g g(-1)ww), and in liver was 0.127  0.122 and 0.132  0.610 (g g(-1)ww) respectively. In O. ruber, the average concentration of Hg and Se in edible parts was 0.348-0.27 and 0.06  0.021 (g g(-1)ww) and in liver was 0.176  0.174 and 0.093  0.022 (g g(-1)ww), respectively. P. erumei has higher mean molar ratio Se/Hg (1.98) compared to O. ruber (0.88).
Anaerobic degradation of textile dye bath effluent using Halomonas sp.	The main objective of this work is to reduce the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and color of the effluent containing reactive textile dye by microbial method. Anaerobic digestion has the potential to break down complex refractory organic compounds so that they may be further degraded aerobically or to completely mineralize them. An anaerobic digestion technique was applied to synthetic reactive red 2 dye cotton textile effluent aiming at the dye degradation. Halophilic and halotolerant bacterial culture Halomonas variabilis and Halomonas glaciei were used for degradation in batch-mode static condition. The temperature was kept constant at 30C using CO(2) incubator. Maximum degradation was achieved within 144 h of experimental run. Degradation studies were made by determining COD and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Statistical analysis showed that the BOD and COD reduction rate were optimal in the concentration of 1297 mg L(-1) for the time duration of nearly 100 h.
Bacterial decolorization and detoxification of black liquor from rayon grade pulp manufacturing paper industry and detection of their metabolic products.	This study deals with the decolorization of black liquor (BL) by isolated potential bacterial consortium comprising Serratia marcescens (GU193982), Citrobacter sp. (HQ873619) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (GU193983). The decolorization of BL was studied by using the different nutritional as well as environmental parameters. In this study, result revealed that the ligninolytic activities were found to be growth associated and the developed bacterial consortium was efficient for the reduction of COD, BOD and color up to 83%, 74% and 85%, respectively. The HPLC analysis of degraded samples of BL has shown the reduction in peak area compared to control. Further, the GC-MS analysis showed that, most of the compounds detected in control were diminished after bacterial treatment while, formic acid hydrazide, 4-cyclohexane-1,2-dicarboxylic acid, carbamic acid, 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid and erythropentanoic acid were found as new metabolites. Further, the seed germination test using Phaseolus aureus has supported the detoxification of bacterial decolorized BL.
Modeling the risk of phosphorus runoff following single and split phosphorus fertilizer applications in two contrasting catchments.	The potential loss of P in runoff is a function of the combined effects of fertilizer-soil interactions and climatic characteristics. In this study, we applied a Bayesian approach to experimental data to model the annualized long-term risk of P runoff following single and split P fertilizer applications using two example catchments with contrasting rainfall/runoff patterns. Split P fertilizer strategies are commonly used in intensive pasture production in Australia and our results showed that three applications of 13.3 kg P ha(-1) resulted in a greater risk of P runoff compared with a single application of 40 kg P ha(-1) when long-term surface runoff data were incorporated into a Bayesian P risk model. Splitting P fertilizer applications increased the likelihood of a coincidence of fertilizer application and runoff occurring. We found that the overall risk of P runoff is also increased in catchments where the rainfall/runoff pattern is less predictable, compared with catchments where rainfall/runoff is winter dominant. The findings of our study also question the effectiveness of current recommendations to avoid applying fertilizer if runoff is likely to occur in the next few days, as we found that total P concentrations at the half-life were still very high (18.2 and 8.2 mg P L(-1)) following single and split P treatments, respectively. Data from the current study also highlight that omitting P fertilizer on soils that already have adequate soil test P concentrations is an effective method of reducing P loss in surface runoff. If P fertilizer must be applied, we recommend less frequent applications and only during periods of the year when the risk of surface P runoff is low.
Effect of surface incorporation of broiler litter applied to no-till cotton on runoff quality.	Surface application of broiler litter to no-till cotton could lead to degradation of water quality. Incorporation of broiler litter into the top surface soil (0.05 m) could alleviate this risk. A 2-yr field study was conducted on a silt loam upland soil to determine the effect of incorporation of broiler litter into the soil surface on nutrient and bacterial transport in runoff. The experimental design was a randomized complete block with four treatments and three replications. Treatments were (i) unfertilized control; (ii) surface-appliedbroiler litter at 7.8 Mg ha(-1) without incorporation; (iii) surface-applied broiler litter at 7.8 Mg ha(-1) with immediate incorporation; and (iv) inorganic fertilizer N (urea ammonium nitrate, 32% N) and inorganic fertilizer P (triple superphosphate) at the recommended rate. Phosphorus was surface appliedat 25 kg ha(-1) and N was injected at 101 kg ha(-1) into the soil using a commercial liquid fertilizer applicator. Runoff was collected from small runoff plots (2.4 m by 1.6 m) established at the bottom side of main plots (13.7 m by 6.0 m). Incorporation of broiler litter reduced total N (TN), NO3-N, water soluble P (WSP), and total P (TP) concentrations in runoffby 35, 25, 61, and 64%, respectively, and litter-associated bacteria by two to three orders of magnitude compared with unincorporated treatment. No significant difference in total suspended solids (TSS) in runoffwas obtained between incorporated and unincorporated treatments. Incorporation of broiler litter into the surface soil in the no-till system immediately after application minimized the potential risk for surface nutrient losses and bacteria transport in runoff.
The effect of hydraulic retention time on the performance and fouling characteristics of membrane sequencing batch reactors used for the treatment of synthetic petroleum refinery wastewater.	The use of membrane sequencing batch reactors, operated at HRT of 8, 16 and 24h, was considered for the treatment of a synthetic petroleum wastewater. Increase in HRT resulted in statistically significant decrease in MLSS. Removal efficiencies higher than 97% were found for the three model hydrocarbon pollutants at all HRTs, with air stripping making a small contribution to overall removal. Particle size distribution (PSD) and microscopic analysis showed reduction in the protozoan populations in the activated sludge with decreasing HRT. PSD analysis also showed a higher proportion of larger and smaller sized particles at the lowest HRT. The rate of membrane fouling was found to increase with decreasing HRT; SMP, especially carbohydrate SMP, and mixed liquor apparent viscosity also showed a pronounced increase with decreasing HRT, whereas the concentration of EPS and its components decreased. FTIR analysis identified organic compounds as the main component of membrane pore fouling.
Nitrification potential and population dynamics of nitrifying bacterial biofilms in response to controlled shifts of ammonium concentrations in wastewater trickling filters.	Nitrogen removal in wastewater treatment is energy consuming and often carried out in biofilm nitrifying trickling filters (NTFs). We investigated nitrification potential and population dynamics of nitrifying bacteria in pilot-plant NTFs fed with full-scale plant wastewater with high (8-9 mg NH(4)(+)l(-1)) or low (<0.5mg NH(4)(+)l(-1)) ammonium concentrations. After ammonium shifts, nitrification potentials stabilized after 10-43 days depending on feed regime. An NTF fed with 3 days of high, and 4 days of low load per week reached a high nitrification potential, whereas a high load for 1 day a week gave a low potential. Nitrosomonas oligotropha dominated the AOB and changes in nitrification potentials were not explained by large population shifts to other AOBs. Although nitrification potentials were generally correlated with the relative amounts of AOB and NOB, this was not always the case. Ammonium feed strategies can be used to optimize wastewater treatment performance.
Temperature dependent (37-15C) anaerobic digestion of a trichloroethylene-contaminated wastewater.	The impact of a trichloroethylene (TCE) contaminated wastewater on the microbial community structure of an anaerobic granular biomass at 15C compared to 37C was investigated. Four expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) bioreactors (R1-R4) were employed in pairs at 37 and 15C. The influents of one of each pair were supplemented with increasing concentrations of TCE (max. 60 mgl(-1)). At 37C, stable operation was maintained with 88% COD removal and >99% TCE removal at maximum influent TCE concentrations. R3 performance decreased at influent TCE concentration of 60 mgl(-1), although TCE removal rates of >97% were recorded. Archaeal community analysis via clone library and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and bacterial community analysis via denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), indicated that temperature resulted in a greater change in community structure than the presence of TCE, and clones related to cold adaptation of biomass were identified at 15C.
Evaluation of carbamazepine uptake and metabolization by Typha spp., a plant with potential use in phytotreatment.	Phytoremediation technologies such as constructed wetlands have shown higher efficiencies in removal of pharmaceuticals from wastewaters than conventional wastewater treatment processes, and plants seem to have an important role in the removal of some of those compounds. In this context, a study was conducted to assess tolerance, uptake, and metabolism of the epilepsy drug, carbamazepine, by the macrophyte Typha spp. This evaluation was conducted in hydroponic solutions with 0.5-2.0mg/L of this pharmaceutical for a maximum period of 21 days. The removal of carbamazepine from nutrient solutions by the plants reached values of 82% of the initial contents. Furthermore, a metabolite (10,11-dihydro-10,11-epoxycarbamazepine) was detected in leaf tissues indicating carbamazepine translocation and metabolism inside plants. Activities of antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase, and guaiacol peroxidase generally increase (after some mild initial inhibition in the case of the latter enzyme) as result of the abiotic stress caused by the exposure to carbamazepine, but ultimately Typha seemed able to cope with its toxicity. The results obtained in this study suggest the ability of Typha spp., to actively participate in the removal of carbamazepine from water when used in phytotreatment systems.
Effects of intermittent aeration on nitrogen-removal capability of biological contact oxidation remediation system for micro-polluted source water]	Aiming at the carbon source limitation of denitrification in oligotrophic habitat, this paper studied the effects of intermittent aeration on the nitrogen-removal capability of biological contact oxidation remediation system for micro-polluted source water, and approached the feasibility and process mechanism of shortcut nitrification and denitrification in the system. Under the condition of 8 h-16 h anoxic-aerobic phase (I), the remediation system performed stably, and its average removal efficiency of ammonium (NH4+ -N), permanganate index (COD(Mn)), and total nitrogen (TN) was 93.0%, 78.1%, and 19.4%, respectively. Under the condition of 16 h-8 h anoxic-aerobic phase (II), the NH4+ -N and COD(Mn) removal efficiency still maintained at 81.2% and 76.4%, respectively, the accumulation of nitrite (NO2- -N) was significant, and the removal efficiency of TN reached more than 50%. The nitrogen transformation characteristics in the system during a cycle under condition II demonstrated that at the prerequisite of effluent NH4+ -N and DO concentrations reaching the standards, shortening aerobic phase length could maintain the DO concentration at 0. 5 -1.5 mg L(-1) in a long term, inhibit the growth and activity of nitrite-oxidizing bacteria, and thereby, NO2- -N had an obvious accumulation, and the nitrogen removal via shortcut nitrification-denitrification in the biological contact oxidation remediation system for micro-polluted source water was finally achieved.
Effect of the exposure to metal lead on the regenerative ability of Lumbriculus variegatus (Oligochaeta).	Lumbriculus variegatus is a recommended species for use in sediment toxicity tests and is known to have a remarkable power of segmental regeneration. Here, we tested the effects of a chemical stressor on the regenerative ability of L. variegatus and investigated the potential of regenerative ability as an additional new parameter in standard toxicity tests. The worms were cut into two equal segments, and exposed to various concentrations of lead. Two assays were performed: one with sediment spiked with lead and the other with water spiked with lead. The endpoints were segmental regeneration, survival and behaviour. Regenerative ability was clearly affected by exposure to lead-contaminated sediment and lead-contaminated water. Organisms exposed to lead grew more slowly than those not exposed; worms exposed to contaminated water showed higher mortalities than those exposed to contaminated sediment. Results showed that L. variegatus' regenerative ability, as a developmental test parameter, is more sensitive than mortality.
Molecular characterization of mercury resistant bacteria inhabiting polluted water bodies of different geographical locations in India.	Mercury pollution is a major environmental problem that arises as a result of natural processes as well as from anthropogenic sources. In response to toxic mercury compounds, microbes have developed astonishing array of resistance systems to detoxify them. To address this challenge, this study was aimed in screening bacterial isolates for their tolerance against varied concentrations of phenylmercuric acetate. Mercury transformation by bacteria being sensitive to factors such as available carbon source, etc. that affect mer-mediated transformation, screened mercury tolerant bacteria were also studied for their tolerance to different antimicrobials and carbon sources, followed by identification using biochemical as well as 16S rRNA approach. Following identification, gene encoding organomercurial lyase catalyzing protonolytic cleavage of C-Hg bond of organic mercury was amplified using gene specific primers, cloned in pGEMT() easy vector and sequenced. Microbe-based approach using organomercurial lyase encoded by merB gene being potentially economic, provides foundation to facilitate genetic manipulation of this environmentally important enzyme to remove high concentrations of obstinate mercury using holistic, multifaceted approach for use in bioremediation through generation of transgenics or as catalyst for use in bioreactors.
Biotransformation and detoxification of inorganic arsenic in a marine juvenile fish Terapon jarbua after waterborne and dietborne exposure.	Arsenic (As) is a major hazardous metalloid in many aquatic environments. This study quantified the biotransformation of two inorganic As species [As(III) and As(V)] in a marine juvenile grunt Terapon jarbua following waterborne and dietborne exposures for 10d. The fish were fed As contaminated artificial diets at nominal concentrations of 50, 150, and 500g As(III) and As(V)/g (dry weight), and their transformation and growth responses were compared to those exposed to 100g/L waterborne As(III) and As(V). Within the 10d exposure period, waterborne and dietborne inorganic As exposure had no significant effect on the fish growth performance. The bioaccumulation of As was very low and not proportional to the inorganic As exposure concentration. We demonstrated that both inorganic As(III) and As(V) in the dietborne and waterborne phases were rapidly biotransformed to the less toxic arsenobetaine (AsB, 89-97%). After exposure to inorganic As, T. jarbua developed correspondingly detoxified strategies, such as the reduction of As(V) to As(III) followed by methylation to less toxic organic forms, as well as the synthesis of metal-binding proteins such as metallothionein-like proteins. This study elucidated that As(III) and As(V) had little potential toxicity on marine fish.
Evaluation of the role of the glutathione redox cycle in Cu(II) toxicity to green algae by a chiral perturbation approach.	The effect of heavy metal toxicity on the environment is usually linked to changes in the glutathione redox cycle and oxidative damage as causative events. However, it is unknown whether changes in the glutathione redox cycle are a cause or result of Cu(II) toxicity. Herein, a new chiral perturbation strategy involving a chiral herbicide, dichlorprop (DCPP), as a perturbation factor was used. According to the dose-response fitting curve of DCPP and the combination with Cu(II), 40 M (R)-DCPP and (S)-DCPP, whose toxicities were low enough to not significantly perturb the Cu(II) toxicity, were selected as the chiral perturbation factor. When Scenedesmus obliquus was incubated with the chiral perturbation factor and 10 M Cu(II), chiral perturbation was observed in the chlorophyll content and the PAM chlorophyll fluorescence. Then, the role of the glutathione redox cycle in the toxicity of Cu(II) was evaluated with the chiral perturbation approach. The results revealed that the GSH differences in algae cells exposed to (R)-DCPP or (S)-DCPP were well correlated with the differences in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after exposure to the two enantiomers. When (R)-DCPP or (S)-DCPP was added with Cu(II) to the algae culture, treatment with (R)-DCPP-Cu resulted in a decrease in the GSH content in algae cells compared to the control, whereas treatment with (S)-DCPP-Cu resulted in an increase in the GSH. The GSH/GSSG ratio and GR activity also showed similar enantioselectivities. The enantioselectivities would not exist if the changes of in glutathione redox cycle were the cause. Therefore, these data provide indirect evidence that ROS induced cell toxicity of Cu is a causative event, which results in the response of the glutathione redox cycle. These results also provided an implication that before sustainable detoxification strategies for heavy metal pollutants were proposed, it is better that the roles of ROS production and glutathione redox cycle are elucidated. In this case, the chiral perturbation strategy may be a good choice.
Assessing nitrification and denitrification in a paddy soil with different water dynamics and applied liquid cattle waste using the N isotopic technique.	Using livestock wastewater for rice production in paddy fields can remove nitrogen and supplement the use of chemical fertilizers. However, paddy fields have complicated water dynamics owing to varying characteristics and would influence nitrogen removal through nitrification followed by denitrification. Quantification of nitrification and denitrification is of great importance in assessing the influence of water dynamics on nitrogen removal in paddy fields. In this study, nitrification and nitrate reduction rates with different water dynamics after liquid cattle waste application were evaluated, and the in situ denitrification rate was determined directly using the (15)N isotopic technique in a laboratory experiment. A significant linear regression correlation between nitrification and the nitrate reduction rate was observed and showed different regression coefficients under different water dynamics. The regression coefficient in the continuously flooded paddy soil was higher than in the drained-reflooded paddy soil, suggesting that nitrate would be consumed faster in the flooded paddy soil. However, nitrification was limited and the maximum rate was only 13.3 g Ng(-1)day(-1) in the flooded paddy soil with rice plants, which limited the supply of nitrate. In contrast, the drained-reflooded paddy soil had an enhanced nitrification rate up to 56.8 g Ng(-1)day(-1), which was four times higher than the flooded paddy soil and further stimulated nitrate reduction rates. Correspondingly, the in situ denitrification rates determined directly in the drained-reflooded paddy soil ranged from 5 to 1035 mg Nm(-2)day(-1), which was higher than the continuously flooded paddy soil (from 5 to 318 mg Nm(-2)day(-1)) during the vegetation period. The nitrogen removal through denitrification accounted for 38.9% and 9.9% of applied nitrogen in the drained-reflooded paddy soil and continuously flooded paddy soil, respectively.
Effect of copper and cadmium ions on heart function and calpain activity in blue mussel Mytilus edulis.	The heart rate and calpain activity of blue mussels Mytilus edulis from the sublittoral zone, exposed to different levels of water-borne copper and cadmium, was investigated in a long-term experiment. The content of cadmium and copper in the blue mussel was determined using flame and graphite Atomic absorption spectroscopy. The observed concentrations ranged from 2.5 to 89.1 g/g dry weight for cadmium and from 6.1 to 51.0 g/g dry weight for copper in the control and highest concentration, respectively. Initially, increase in cardiac activity in response to copper and Cadmium exposure was observed under all pollutant concentrations (5-250 and 10-500 g/L, respectively). The calpain-like activity in gills and hepatopancreas of the mussels treated with metals changed in dose- and time-dependent manner: from a sharp rise at the 250 g/L concentration of copper on the first day to a significant decrease under the effect of Cadmium in the concentration of 500 g/L on the third day of the experiment. These results suggest that: (i) heart rate oscillation may reflect active adaptation of blue mussels to contamination and (ii) animals have different sensitivity to copper and Cadmium according to the role of the metals in the mussels' life activity.
Reduction of antibiotics using microorganisms containing glutathione S-transferases under immobilized conditions.	The degradation of several antibiotics (tetracycline, sulfathiazole, ampicillin) was performed with immobilized bacterial cells containing the glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Antibiotics in animal feed contaminated wastewater usually inhibit the growth of microorganisms that treat the wastewater, so a bio-friendly treatment method is required. Therefore, we have shown that the inhibitory effects of antibiotics on bacteria were reduced by microorganisms containing detoxifying enzyme GSTs by using a cell immobilizing method in a bioreactor. The initial concentrations of tetracycline, sulfathiazole and ampicillin were 100mg/L, 100mg/L and 50mg/L respectively, which are typical of the range detected in pig feed in Korea. In the results, we observed the removal efficiency of tetracycline to be almost 70% with Staphylococcus epidermidis in the bioreactor, suggesting that this method of antibiotic removal is worthy of further study.
Performance evaluation of a granular activated carbon-sequencing batch biofilm reactor pilot plant system used in treating real wastewater from recycled paper industry.	A pilot scale granular activated carbon-sequencing batch biofilm reactor with a capacity of 2.2 m3 was operated for over three months to evaluate its performance treating real recycled paper industry wastewater under different operational conditions. In this study, dissolved air floatation (DAF) and clarifier effluents were used as influent sources of the pilot plant. During the course of the study, the reactor was able to biodegrade the contaminants in the incoming recycled paper mill wastewater in terms of chemical oxygen demand (COD), adsorbable organic halides (AOX; specifically 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP)) and ammoniacal nitrogen (NH3-N) removal efficiencies at varying hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of 1-3 days, aeration rates (ARs) of 2.1-3.4 m3/min and influent feed concentration of 40-950 mg COD/l. Percentages of COD, 2,4-DCP and NH3-N removals increased with increasing HRT, resulting in more than 90% COD, 2,4-DCP and NH3-N removals at HRT values above two days. Degradation of COD, 2,4-DCP and NH3-N were seriously affected by variation of ARs, which resulted in significant decrease of COD, 2,4-DCP and NH3-N removals by decreasing ARs from 3.4 m3/min to 2.1 m3/min, varying in the ranges of 24-80%, 6-96% and 5-42%, respectively. In comparison to the clarifier effluent, the treatment performance of DAF effluent, containing high COD concentration, resulted in a higher COD removal of 82%. The use of diluted DAF effluent did not improve significantly the COD removal. Higher NH3-N removal efficiency of almost 100% was observed during operation after maintenance shutdown compared to normal operation, even at the same HRT of one day due to the higher dissolved oxygen concentrations (1-7 mg/l), while no significant difference in COD removal efficiency was observed.
Bioaccumulations of aluminum and the effects of chelating agents on different organs of Cirrhinus mrigala.	The study of biological indicator organisms may be more informative than analyzing water or sediments for monitoring heavy metal pollution in the aquatic environment. Non-essential elements enter into the animals and accumulate at the different organs so that chelating agents are most versatile and effective antidotes to eliminate the metals toxicities. The aim of our present study is to find out bioaccumulations of aluminum and the effects of chelating agents DFO and DFP in Muscle, gill, kidney, brain and liver tissues of Cirrhinus mrigala by using inductively coupled atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES). This study determined that the accumulation pattern of aluminum is muscle > gill > kidney > brain > liver. The present result suggests that DFO and DFP reduce the aluminum concentration in the tissues of C. mrigala fish and both are efficient chelators. Aluminum toxicity is a widespread problem in all forms of life, including humans, animals, fish, plants, and causes wide spread degradation of the environment and health.
Reducing methylmercury accumulation in the food webs of San Francisco Bay and its local watersheds.	San Francisco Bay (California, USA) and its local watersheds present an interesting case study in estuarine mercury (Hg) contamination. This review focuses on the most promising avenues for attempting to reduce methylmercury (MeHg) contamination in Bay Area aquatic food webs and identifying the scientific information that is most urgently needed to support these efforts. Concern for human exposure to MeHg in the region has led to advisories for consumption of sport fish. Striped bass from the Bay have the highest average Hg concentration measured for this species in USA estuaries, and this degree of contamination has been constant for the past 40 years. Similarly, largemouth bass in some Bay Area reservoirs have some of the highest Hg concentrations observed in the entire US. Bay Area wildlife, particularly birds, face potential impacts to reproduction based on Hg concentrations in the tissues of several Bay species. Source control of Hg is one of the primary possible approaches for reducing MeHg accumulation in Bay Area aquatic food webs. Recent findings (particularly Hg isotope measurements) indicate that the decades-long residence time of particle-associated Hg in the Bay is sufficient to allow significant conversion of even the insoluble forms of Hg into MeHg. Past inputs have been thoroughly mixed throughout this shallow and dynamic estuary. The large pool of Hg already present in the ecosystem dominates the fraction converted to MeHg and accumulating in the food web. Consequently, decreasing external Hg inputs can be expected to reduce MeHg in the food web, but it will likely take many decades to centuries before those reductions are achieved. Extensive efforts to reduce loads from the largest Hg mining source (the historic New Almaden mining district) are underway. Hg is spread widely across the urban landscape, but there are a number of key sources, source areas, and pathways that provide opportunities to capture larger quantities of Hg and reduce loads from urban runoff. Atmospheric deposition is a lower priority for source control in the Bay Area due to a combination of a lack of major local sources. Internal net production of MeHg is the dominant source of MeHg that enters the food web. Controlling internal net production is the second primary management approach, and has the potential to reduce food web MeHg in some habitats more effectively and within a much shorter time-frame. Controlling net MeHg production and accumulation in the food web of upstream reservoirs and ponds is very promising due to the many features of these ecosystems that can be manipulated. The most feasible control options in tidal marshes relate to the design of flow patterns and subhabitats in restoration projects. Options for controlling MeHg production in open Bay habitat are limited due primarily to the highly dispersed distribution of Hg throughout the ecosystem. Other changes in these habitats may also have a large influence on food web MeHg, including temperature changes due to global warming, sea level rise, food web alterations due to introduced species and other causes, and changes in sediment supply. Other options for reducing or mitigating exposure and risk include controlling bioaccumulation, cleanup of contaminated sites, and reducing other factors (e.g., habitat availability) that limit at-risk wildlife populations.
Metal concentrations, growth and condition indices in European juvenile flounder (Platichthys flesus) relative to sediment contamination levels in four Eastern English Channel estuaries.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of metal contamination on the biological responses of 0-group juvenile European flounder and to assess and compare the quality of four estuarine habitats located in the Eastern English Channel. Fish otolith growth and condition indices (RNA:DNA ratio, Fulton's K condition index) were measured and found to be significantly lower in individuals from the Seine estuary compared to those of the Canche, Authie and Somme estuaries. No obvious effects of hydrological condition or food availability on the flounder biological responses were observed. Sediments from the Seine showed the highest metal concentrations, bioavailable proportion and enrichment factors. Higher metal concentrations were observed in fish from the Seine compared to the other ones caught in less polluted estuaries. These results suggest that contaminants may have a negative impact on the early life history stage of flounder.
Temporal trends of mercury in Greenland ringed seal populations in a warming climate.	Temporal trends of mercury in livers of ringed seals collected from the early 1980s to 2010 from central West, Northwest and central East Greenland were studied. In this period the climate of Greenland warmed and the influences of climate indices such as ice coverage, water temperature and the Atlantic Oscillation Index on mercury concentration were evaluated using multiple regressions and Akaike's Information Criteria (AIC) to determine the most parsimonious models. Biological co-variables such as age, sex and trophic position (as determined by stable isotope analysis) of seals were also evaluated. Increasing levels of mercury in seals were found in Ittoqqortoormiit, central East Greenland, and Avanersuaq, Northwest Greenland, with an annual increase of +10.3 and +2%, respectively. Age was an important co-variable for all three regions and trophic position for two regions. The Atlantic Oscillation Index was also an important explanatory variable for all three regions and was positively associated with mercury concentrations in seals indicating the importance of global climatic processes on ringed seal populations in Greenland.
Biological removal of phosphate at low concentrations using recombinant Escherichia coli expressing phosphate-binding protein in periplasmic space.	During wastewater treatment, phosphate removal is an important and challenging process; thus, diverse technologies, including those derived from biological means, have been devised for efficient phosphate removal. Although conventional biological methods are effective in decreasing wastewater phosphate levels to ~1 mg/L, long periods of microbial adaptation are required for effective phosphate removal, and the removal efficiency of these methods is relatively poor at lower phosphate concentrations. In the present work, we constructed a recombinant Escherichia coli with periplasmic-expressed phosphate-binding protein (PBP) and investigated its biological removal ability for low phosphate levels. We found that the PBP-expressing recombinant E. coli cells showed efficient (> 94 %) removal of phosphate at low concentrations (0.2-1.0 mg/L) in a treated cell mass-dependent manner. Collectively, we propose that our PBP-expressing recombinant whole-cell system could be successfully used during wastewater treatment for the biological removal of low concentrations of phosphate.
Combination system of full-scale constructed wetlands and wetland paddy fields to remove nitrogen and phosphorus from rural unregulated non-point sources.	Constructed wetlands (CWs) have been used effectively to remove nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) from non-point sources. Effluents of some CWs were, however, still with high N and P concentrations and remained to be pollution sources. Widely distributed paddy fields can be exploited to alleviate this concern. We were the first to investigate a combination system of three-level CWs with wetland paddy fields in a full scale to remove N and P from rural unregulated non-point sources. The removal efficiencies (REs) of CWs reached 57.3 % (37.4-75.1 %) for N and 76.3 % (62.0-98.4 %) for P. The CWs retained about 1,278 kg N ha(-1) year(-1) and 121 kg P ha(-1) year(-1). There was a notable seasonal change in REs of N and P, and the REs were different in different processing components of CWs. The removal rates of wetland paddy fields adopt "zero-drainage" water management according to local rainfall forecast and physiological water demand of crop growth reached 93.2 kg N ha(-1) year(-1) and 5.4 kg P ha(-1) year(-1). The rice season had higher potential in removing N and P than that in the wheat season. The whole combined system (0.56 ha CWs and 5.5 ha wetland paddy fields) removed 1,790 kg N year(-1) and 151 kg P year(-1), which were higher than those from CWs functioned alone. However, another 4.7-ha paddy fields were needed to fully remove the N and P in the effluents of CWs. The combination of CWs and paddy fields proved to be a more efficient nutrient removal system.
Occurrence of brominated flame retardants and perfluoroalkyl substances in fish from the Czech aquatic ecosystem.	This study reports results of analysis of various groups of halogenated compounds, including brominated flame retardants (BFRs), such as polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs), hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD), tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) and perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) in 48 fish samples collected in eight localities from the Czech Republic. In this survey, identification of potential sources of these chemicals was also performed; therefore several sampling sites located in highly industrialized areas were also selected. Perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS) was dominating in all tested fish samples. Generally, the content of BFRs was significantly lower, i.e. in the range of 0.21-19.9 g/kg wet weight, ww (median value 2.37 g/kg ww) compared to the concentration of PFASs that was in the range of 0.15-877 g/kg ww (median value 8.5 g/kg ww). The extremely high content of PFOS (842 g/kg ww) was found in fish muscle tissue from the locality situated on the Blina River, where chemical industry is located. This concentration was comparable to those found in similar highly industrialized areas worldwide.
Temporal distribution of heavy metal concentrations in oysters Crassostrea rhizophorae from the central Venezuelan coast.	The oyster Crassostrea rhizophorae is a bivalve abundant in Venezuelan estuaries and consumed by local populations. No known values have been reported on trace metals in oysters from the central Venezuelan coast. We report the concentrations of Al, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Sr, V and Zn in the soft parts of C. rhizophorae, which were collected bimonthly between March 2008 and March 2009, at two sampling areas from the Central Venezuelan Coast: Buche estuary and Mochima estuary. Our results show that for each metal there is a similar temporal variation pattern. The concentrations of the heavy metals reported in this work are useful as reliable baselines and can be used for comparison in future environment studies. Concentrations in C. rhizophorae from the Buche estuary can be interpreted to be high on a global scale for Cd, Cu, Ni and Mn, indicating atypically raised bioavailabilities. 
Chlorinated compounds and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) collected from Apulia Region coasts.	This project was carried out to assess the levels and spatial distribution of organochlorine compounds in the coastal marine environment, using mussels as bioindicators to evaluate the coastal water quality. Levels of polychlorobiphenils (PCB), chlorinated pesticides (DDT isomers, HCH isomers, Aldrin, Dieldrin, alfa-Endosulfan, Hexachlorobenzene, Pentachlorobenzene) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) were determined in tissues from mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) collected along the Apulia Region coasts (Mediterranean Sea). Results indicate that contamination by organochlorine compounds is higher in mussels sampled in the Ionian Sea than in those from the Adriatic Sea, with PCB levels up to seven times higher in mussels from Ionian than from the Adriatic Sea. Although PCB levels were above the maximum values indicated by both European Community (EC) and National regulation in several sample sites, the PCB concentrations were particularly high in some stations, suggesting that these locations require a much specific attention. Conversely, results on the mussel contamination by PBDEs highlight their ubiquitous environmental distribution, and underline the need to establish the maximum level for these compounds in foodstuff, according to European Regulations. 
Concentrations of microcystins in tissues of several fish species from freshwater reservoirs and ponds.	The aim of this study is to summarise the determination of concentrations of microcystins (MCs) in muscle and liver of freshwater fish species caught in stagnant waters of the Czech Republic. Within the years 2007-2009, 351 muscle samples and 291 liver samples of 16 freshwater fish species derived from four fishponds, and four water reservoirs were analysed. MCs were detected in 53 liver samples. The highest concentrations of microcystins were determined in liver samples of carnivorous fish species; 50.3 ng/g of fresh weight (FW) in perch (Perca fluviatilis) and 22.7 ng/g FW in pikeperch (Sander lucioperca). MCs in liver were detected in other five fish species; asp (Aspius aspius), pike (Esox lucius), common carp (Cyprinus carpio), grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) and European eel (Anguilla anguilla). Concentrations of MCs in liver of nine fish species (European bream, whitefish, tench, silver carp, European catfish, roach, chub, crucian carp and rudd) were below the detection limit of 1.2-5.4 ng/g FW for different MC congeners. However, the concentrations of MCs in all muscle samples were below the detection limit. The assessment of MCs concentrations might be influenced by the detection method used. Due to the concentrations of MCs being below the detection limit in muscle samples of all fish species analysed, it seems that there might be a low potential threat for human health in case of fish muscle consumption.
Does area deprivation modify the association between exposure to a nitrate and low-dose atrazine metabolite mixture in drinking water and small for gestational age? A historic cohort study.	Birth weight may be influenced by environmental and socio-economic factors that could interact. The main objective of our research was to investigate whether area deprivation may modify the association between drinking water exposure to a mixture of atrazine metabolites and nitrates during the second trimester of pregnancy and prevalence of small for gestational age (SGA) neonates. We conducted a historic cohort study in Deux-Svres, France between 2005 and 2010, using birth records, population census and regularly performed drinking water withdrawals at community water systems. Exposure to an atrazine metabolite/nitrate mixture in drinking water was divided into six classes according to the presence or absence of atrazine metabolites and to the terciles of nitrate concentrations in each trimester of pregnancy. We used a logistic regression to model the association between SGA and mixture exposure at the second trimester while taking into account the area deprivation measured by the Townsend index as an effect modifier and controlling for the usual confounders. We included 10,784 woman-neonate couples. The risk of SGA when exposed to second tercile of nitrate without atrazine metabolites was significantly greater in women living in less deprived areas (OR = 2.99; 95 % CI (1.14, 7.89)), whereas it was not significant in moderately and more deprived areas. One of the arguments used to explain this result is the presence of competing risk factors in poorer districts.
Plastic in north sea fish.	To quantify the occurrence of ingested plastic in fish species caught at different geographical positions in the North Sea, and to test whether the fish condition is affected by ingestion of plastics, 1203 individual fish of seven common North Sea species were investigated: herring, gray gurnard, whiting, horse mackerel, haddock, atlantic mackerel, and cod. Plastic particles were found in 2.6% of the examined fish and in five of the seven species. No plastics were found in gray gurnard and mackerel. In most cases, only one particle was found per fish, ranging in size from 0.04 to 4.8 mm. Only particles larger than 0.2 mm, being the diameter of the sieve used, were considered for the data analyses, resulting in a median particle size of 0.8 mm. The frequency of fish with plastic was significantly higher (5.4%) in the southern North Sea, than in the northern North Sea above 55N (1.2%). The highest frequency (>33%) was found in cod from the English Channel. In addition, small fibers were initially detected in most of the samples, but their abundance sharply decreased when working under special clean air conditions. Therefore, these fibers were considered to be artifacts related to air born contamination and were excluded from the analyses. No relationship was found between the condition factor (size-weight relationship) of the fish and the presence of ingested plastic particles. 
Heavy metal bioaccumulation and risk assessment for wild and farmed beluga sturgeon caviar.	Because of over-exploitation of sturgeon for caviar production, they have been listed worldwide in annex II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species regulations; so caviar production using aquaculture is increasingly seen as a feasible way to reduce overfishing. The accumulation of the nonessential metals As, Ba, Cd, Hg, Pb, and Sn was determined in the caviar of farmed and wild Beluga sturgeon (Huso huso). The levels of As in both and Cd in wild samples were less than 0.01 mg kg(-1) wet weight, and the comparison for all of the metals studied did not show large fluctuations in metal concentrations between farmed and wild caviar samples. The average for each toxic metal was below the permissible limits proposed by the UK's Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Foods (2000). The maximum allowable daily consumption rate of caviar was calculated; however, the health risks from caviar consumption are uncertain because the amount of caviar consumed by heavy users is not known.
Hexabromocyclododecane in alpine fish from the Tibetan Plateau, China.	Hexabromocyclododecanes (HBCDs) has just been listed into Stockholm Convention as a persistent organic pollutant recently. This paper studied the HBCDs in 79 wild fish from high mountain lakes and rivers of the Tibetan Plateau. The HBCDs in fish muscles ranged from non detectable levels to 13.7 ng/g lipid weight (lw) (mean value of 2.12 ng/g lw) with a high detection frequency of 65.8%. -HBCD dominated among the isomers and accounted for 78.2% of the total burden. Concentrations of HBCDs in the fish were significantly correlated with the lipid content. A decreasing trend was observed between -HBCD and trophic level. Positive correlation was also noted between the HBCD levels in fish from lakes and the annual precipitation, and this implied the long-range atmospheric transport of HBCDs to the Tibet Plateau. This was the first work to widely explore HBCDs contamination in the aquatic ecosystems of the Tibetan Plateau.
Temporal trends in dioxins (polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofurans) and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls in Baltic herring (Clupea harengus).	Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyl (dl-PCBs) concentrations in Baltic herring (Clupea harengus) have been relatively stable since the mid to late 1990s. It is unclear why concentrations in Baltic herring are not following the observed decreases in other environmental matrices. Here, changes in long-term temporal trends in Baltic herring were examined. A number of biological variables were examined alongside the temporal trends to investigate whether fish biology e.g., growth (length, weight, age), lipid content, reproductive phase or fishing date may provide an explanation for the temporal trends observed. Significant (p<0.05) decreasing trends were observed for PCDD/F toxic equivalents (TEQPCDD/F) at three of the four sites (lipid weight (lw) and wet weight (ww), Swedish west coast lw only); however, other TEQ values e.g., TEQPCDD, TEQPCDF, TEQdl-PCB, TEQPCDD/F+dl-PCB were inconsistent, decreasing at some sites but not others. In the most recent 10 years of data, fewer significant decreases were seen overall. Over the examined time period, significant decreases (Bothnian Bay, p<0.01, southern Baltic Proper, p<0.02) and increases (Swedish west coast, p<0.02) in lipid content, growth dilution or lack thereof, and significant changes in age were observed. However herring were not randomly selected which biases this result. Continual efforts to decrease PCDD/F and dl-PCB emissions and to locate/reduce hotspots are necessary, while bearing in mind that herring biology may be impeding faster decreases of these chemicals.
Long term trends of Hg uptake in resident fish from a polluted estuary.	Mercury contamination of fish is dependent upon a system's ability to transform inorganic Hg into biologically available forms; however, fish biometrics also play an important role. To assess long term trends in Hg concentrations in sand flathead (Platycephalus bassensis) a polynomial model, corrected for fish length, was used to evaluate temporal trends and spatial variability, while growth rates were estimated using the Von Bertalanffy length-at-age model. Hg concentrations showed no decrease over time, and generally remained near recommended consumption levels (0.5 mg kg(-1)). Previously reported spatial differences in Hg concentrations were not supported by the data once the models were corrected for fish length. Growth rate variation accounted for a large part of the previously published spatial differences. These results suggest that inclusion of fish biometrics is necessary to facilitate an accurate interpretation of spatial and temporal trends of contaminant concentrations in long term estuarine and marine monitoring programs.
Assessment of anaerobic toluene biodegradation activity by bssA transcript/gene ratios.	Benzylsuccinate synthase (bssA) genes associated with toluene degradation were profiled across a groundwater contaminant plume under nitrate-reducing conditions and were detected in significant numbers throughout the plume. However, differences between groundwater and core sediment samples suggested that microbial transport, rather than local activity, was the underlying cause of the high copy numbers within the downgradient plume. Both gene transcript and reactant concentrations were consistent with this hypothesis. Expression of bssA genes from denitrifying toluene degraders was induced by toluene but only in the presence of nitrate, and transcript abundance dropped rapidly following the removal of either toluene or nitrate. The drop in bssA transcripts following the removal of toluene could be described by an exponential decay function with a half-life on the order of 1 h. Interestingly, bssA transcripts never disappeared completely but were always detected at some level if either inducer was present. Therefore, the detection of transcripts alone may not be sufficient evidence for contaminant degradation. To avoid mistakenly associating basal-level gene expression with actively degrading microbial populations, an integrated approach using the ratio of functional gene transcripts to gene copies is recommended. This approach minimizes the impact of microbial transport on activity assessment and allows reliable assessments of microbial activity to be obtained from water samples. 
Biomonitoring of trace metal pollution using the bivalve molluscs, Villorita cyprinoides, from the Cochin backwaters.	Trace metal concentrations in the muscle of the bivalve Villorita cyprinoides from the Cochin backwaters (southwest coast of India) were investigated during the monsoon, post-monsoon and pre-monsoon periods. The seasonal average ranges of metals (g g(-1), dry weight) in the bivalve were as follows: Fe (18,532.44-28,267.05), Co (23.25-37.58), Ni (10.56-19.28), Cu (3.58-11.35), Zn (48.45-139.15), Cd (1.06-1.50) and Pb (3.05-4.35). The marginally elevated metal concentrations in bivalve muscles are probably related to high influx of metals as a result of pollution from the industries and agricultural fields with consequent increased bioavailability of metals to the bivalve. Evaluation of the risks to human health associated with consumption of the bivalves suggested that there is no health risk for moderate shellfish consumers. A regular and continuous biomonitoring program is recommended to establish V. cyprinoides as a bioindicator for assessing the effects of trace metal pollution and to identify future changes to conserve the "health" of this fragile ecosystem.
Identification and dose dependency of ibuprofen biliary metabolites in rainbow trout.	The biotransformation of the anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen (IBF) was studied by exposing rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) to IBF via intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection, and via water at four (0.17, 1.9, 13 and 145 g L(-1)) exposure levels for 4d. Following exposure, the bile was collected and analyzed by LC-MS/MS methods. The identification of the formed metabolites in i.p. injected fish bile was based on the exact mass determinations by a time-of-flight mass analyzer (Q-TOF-MS) and on the studies of fragments and fragmentation patterns of precursor ions by ion trap mass analyzer (IT-MS). In addition to unmetabolized IBF, several phase I and phase II metabolites were found in the bile. The main metabolites were acyl glucuronides and taurine conjugates of IBF and of hydroxylated IBFs. The bioconcentration factors (BCFbile), defined as the ratio of the sum of IBF and its metabolites in fish bile to the concentration of IBF in water, was determined following enzymatic deconjugation and was found to range from 14000 to 49000. The highest BCFbile was found at the lowest exposure concentration (0.17 g L(-1)). The results show that rainbow trout has a high capacity for biotransformation of IBF, and the exposure of fish to sub g L(-1) concentrations of IBF can be determined by the analyses of the biliary metabolites of the compound.
Oxidative stress in freshwater fish, Labeo rohita as a biomarker of malathion exposure.	This study examined the effect of lethal (4.5 g/l) and sublethal (0.45 g/l) malathion levels on oxidative stress responses of the freshwater edible fish, Labeo rohita. Fish were exposed to lethal (1-4 days) and sublethal (1, 5, 10, and 15 days) periods. In the present study, catalase and protease activity, hydrogen peroxide, malondialdehyde, protein carbonyls, and free amino acids levels increased in the gill, liver, and kidney tissues of fish exposed to lethal and sublethal concentrations of malathion except protein content. Time- and concentration-dependent induction/reduction of the above parameters by lethal and sublethal concentrations of malathion was observed in the tissues (the gill, liver, and kidney) of L. rohita. Thus, the results clearly infer oxidative damage and decline in antioxidant defense due to malathion-induced oxidative stress.
A national probabilistic study of polybrominated diphenyl ethers in fish from US lakes and reservoirs.	Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic chemicals that are present in air, water, soil, sediment, and biota (including fish). Most previous studies of PBDEs in fish were spatially focused on targeted waterbodies. National estimates were developed for PBDEs in fish from lakes and reservoirs of the conterminous US (excluding the Laurentian Great Lakes) using an unequal probability design. Predator (fillet) and bottom-dweller (whole-body) composites were collected during 2003 from 166 lakes selected randomly from the target population of 147,343 lakes. Both composite types comprised nationally representative samples that were extrapolated to the sampled population of 76,559 and 46,190 lakes for predators and bottom dwellers, respectively. Fish were analyzed for 34 individual PBDE congeners and six co-eluting congener pairs representing a total of 46 PBDEs. All samples contained detectable levels of PBDEs, and BDE-47 predominated. The maximum aggregated sums of congeners ranged from 38.3 ng/g (predators) to 125 ng/g (bottom dwellers). Maximum concentrations in fish from this national probabilistic study exceeded those reported from recent targeted studies of US inland lakes, but were lower than those from Great Lakes studies. The probabilistic design allowed the development of cumulative distribution functions to quantify PBDE concentrations versus the cumulative number of US lakes from the sampled population.
Alleviation of cadmium toxicity by silicon is related to elevated photosynthesis, antioxidant enzymes; suppressed cadmium uptake and oxidative stress in cotton.	Biotic systems face immense environmental hazards such as accumulation of heavy metals, particularly in agricultural ecosystems that might cause deterioration of yield and quality of crops. In this study, we evaluated the role of silicon (Si) in alleviating the heavy metal (Cd) stress tolerance in cotton by analyzing the induced Physio-chemical changes. Cotton plants were grown in hydroponic culture with three different Cd levels (0, 1 and 5M) along with two Si treatment levels (0 and 1mM). The data showed that Cd alone reduced the plant growth as well as the efficiency of antioxidant activity as compared to control plants. Plant growth, gas exchange characteristics (net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, transpiration rate, water use efficiency) chlorophyll contents, and carotenoids as well as the performance of antioxidant enzymes were improved by the exogenous application of Si. The adverse effects of Cd on plant growth were alleviated by the exogenous application of Si. It was observed that Si effectively mitigated the adverse effects of Cd on cotton plants and markedly enhanced the growth, biomass and photosynthetic parameters while decreased the contents of malondialdehyde (MDA), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and electrolytic leakage (EL). The antioxidant enzyme activities in cotton leaves and roots increased significantly, when Si was added to control as well as Cd stressed plants. In conclusion, Si improved the growth and photosynthesis attributes of cotton plants by mitigating the adverse effects of Cd stress through reduced EL, MDA and H2O2 contents and improved activities of antioxidant enzymes. 
Zn-stimulated mucus secretion in the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) intestine inhibits Cd accumulation and Cd-induced lipid peroxidation.	Interest in the interactions between dietary constituents in the gut is increasing, but information remains sparse. In this study rainbow trout were fed non-enriched (186.719.0 g Zn g(-1) (dw)), enriched (20% increase) and hyper-enriched Zn (200% increase) diet for 21 d followed by a single meal of Cd-spiked food (188.69.9 g Cd g(-1) (dw)). Intestinal, hepatic and renal Zn burdens were measured on Days 7, 14 and 21 and Cd concentrations in the same tissue were measured 48 h-post Cd exposure. Oxidative stress was measured as lipid peroxidation in dissected tissues and intestinal mucus was quantified as sialic acid using the thiobarbituric acid assay. Rainbow trout maintained on the hyper-enriched Zn diet experienced significantly increased intestinal mucus secretion (p<0.01), were the only treatment group not to accumulate Cd in the intestine, and there was also no increase in intestinal oxidative damage. Conversely, fish fed the non-enriched and enriched Zn diets did not produce greater than basal levels of intestinal mucus and accumulated significantly greater concentrations of Cd in the intestine (p<0.01) leading to significant localised Cd-induced lipid peroxidation (p<0.01). High levels of mucus production correlated to lower incidences of lipid peroxidation (r(2)=0.54, p<0.05). These results demonstrate that mucus production stimulated by a high Zn diet have an inhibitory effect on Cd accumulation in the intestine and on Cd-induced lipid peroxidation. Mechanistically, it is likely that the elevated mucus production provides a barrier to Cd uptake. This study describes how one dietary constituent directly modifies the gut environment which indirectly influences the fate of another ingested cation.
Successful bioaugmentation of an activated sludge reactor with Rhodococcus sp. YYL for efficient tetrahydrofuran degradation.	The exchange of tetrahydrofuran (THF)-containing wastewater should significantly affect the performance of an activated sludge system. In this study, the feasibility of using THF-degrading Rhodococcus sp. strain YYL to bioaugment an activated sludge system treating THF wastewater was explored. As indicated by a DGGE analysis, strain YYL alone could not dominate the system, with the concentration of mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) decreasing to nearly half of the initial concentration after 45 d, and the microbial diversity was found to be significantly reduced. However, after the reactor was augmented with the mixed culture of strain YYL and two bacilli initially coexisting in the enriched isolation source, strain YYL quickly became dominant in the system and was incorporated into the activated sludge. The concentration of MLSS increased from 2.1g/L to 7.3g/L in 20 d, and the efficiency of THF removal from the system was remarkably improved. After the successful bioaugmentation, more than 95% of THF was completely removed from the wastewater when 20mM THF was continuously loaded into the system. In conclusion, our research first demonstrates that bioaugmentation of activated sludge system for THF degradation is feasible but that successful bioaugmentation should utilize a THF-degrading mixed culture as the inoculum, in which the two bacilli might help strain YYL colonize in activated sludge by co-aggregation.
Antioxidant response versus selenium accumulation in the liver and kidney of the Siberian sturgeon (Acipenser baeri).	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of selenium on concentrations of metabolites and enzyme activities acting as antioxidant markers in liver and kidney of Siberian sturgeon Acipenser baeri. Sturgeons were fed selenium cysteine for 30 and 60 d at 1.25, 5, 20mg Sekg(-1). Selenium level in the control feed was 0.32 mg kg(-1). Se concentration was measured in liver, kidney and muscle of every specimen. Sturgeon accumulated Se in tissues with a clear dose-response relationship and the highest Se concentration was recorded in liver. This outcome is lined up with the findings obtained on the antioxidant markers evaluated in both tissues, and in which a dose-response for several biomarkers was recorded in liver. The superoxide dismutase activity in Se-treated fish was generally induced, while catalase activity was lower in liver or unaltered in kidney. The concentrations of glutathione S-transferase, glutathione reductase and total glutathione responded differently for both tissues and were induced in a different way at both endpoints. No changes of glyoxalase I activity were noted for both Se-treated tissues, while for glyoxalase II enzyme in liver a dose-related pattern was found showing a reversible effect (decreased and increased counteractive response) only in the 5 mg kg(-1) group. Moreover, the highest Se concentrations did not cause marked changes in malondialdehyde levels of liver and kidney. The enhancement of glutathione peroxidase activity in Se-treated sturgeon might have prevented the lipid peroxidation in both tissues, providing to the Siberian sturgeon a great defense ability versus the prooxidant effect of selenium.
Intrinsic potential for immediate biodegradation of toluene in a pristine, energy-limited aquifer.	Pristine and energy-limited aquifers are considered to have a low resistance and resilience towards organic pollution. An experiment in an indoor aquifer system revealed an unexpected high intrinsic potential for the attenuation of a short-term toluene contamination. A 30 h pulse of 486 mg of toluene, used as a model contaminant, and deuterated water (D2O) through an initially pristine, oxic, and organic carbon poor sandy aquifer revealed an immediate aerobic toluene degradation potential. Based on contaminant and tracer break-through curves, as well as mass balance analyses and reactive transport modelling, a contaminant removal of 40 % over a transport distance of only 4.2 m in less than one week of travel time was obtained. The mean first-order degradation rate constant was  = 0.178 day(-1), corresponding to a half-life time constant T1/2 of 3.87 days. Toluene-specific stable carbon isotope analysis independently proved that the contaminant mass removal can be attributed to microbial biodegradation. Since average doubling times of indigenous bacterial communities were in the range of months to years, the aerobic biodegradation potential observed is assumed to be present and active in the pristine, energy-limited groundwater ecosystems at any time. Follow-up experiments and field studies will help to quantify the immediate natural attenuation potential of aquifers for selected priority contaminants and will try to identify the key-degraders within the autochthonous microbial communities.
Ecotoxicological risk assessment linked to the discharge by hospitals of bio-accumulative pharmaceuticals into aquatic media: The case of mitotane.	The release of hospital wastewater into the urban sewer networks contributes to the general contamination of aquatic media by pharmaceutical residues. These residues include bio-accumulative pharmaceuticals that lead to increased risk for ecosystems because they can concentrate in organisms and food chains, and therefore reach toxic levels. In order to assess the ecotoxicological risks linked to this particular category of residues, we have developed a specific method, by combining a theoretical calculation of pollutant concentrations in organisms to estimate Body Residue (BR), and ecotoxicity biomarkers in fish cell lines, enabling the calculation of a Critical Body Residue (CBR). This method finally results in the calculation of a specific risk quotient (Qb=BR/CBR), characterizing the risk linked to this type of pollutant. This method was applied to mitotane, a bio-accumulative pharmaceutical typically found in hospital wastewater, in the framework of an exposure scenario corresponding to the discharge of all the hospital wastewaters into the Rhone River which flows through the city of Lyon, France. This approach leads to risk quotients (Qb and Qbg) much higher than those found with the classical approach, i.e. Q=PEC/PNEC (Predictive Environmental Concentration/Predictive Non Effect Concentration)=0.0006. This difference in the appreciation of risk is important when using cytotoxicity as the criterion for measuring the toxicity of mitotane (Qb=0.056) and it is even greater when the criterion used is genotoxicity (Qbg=6.8). This study must be now consolidated by taking the biomagnification of the pharmaceuticals into consideration. 
Use of skin and blubber tissues of small cetaceans to assess the trace element content of internal organs.	In order to evaluate the use of biopsy samples as non-destructive tool for assessing trace element concentrations in small cetaceans, the concentrations of 14 trace elements were determined in skin, blubber, liver and kidneys of four species of small cetaceans (i.e. common dolphin Delphinus delphis, harbour porpoise Phocoena phocoena, bottlenose dolphin Tursiops truncatus and striped dolphin Stenella coeruleolba), stranded and/or by-caught along the NE Atlantic Ocean coast between 2001 and 2008. Only Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni and Zn were above the detection limit of the instruments and showed recoveries satisfactory enough to be interpreted. Among these trace elements, Hg was the only one showing a significant correlation between concentrations in and those in liver and kidneys. In consequence skin and blubber can only be used as non-invasive monitoring tissues to investigate Hg bioaccumulation in internal tissues for cetacean populations. 
Incorporating bioavailability into management limits for copper in sediments contaminated by antifouling paint used in aquaculture.	Although now well embedded within many risk-based sediment quality guideline (SQG) frameworks, contaminant bioavailability is still often overlooked in assessment and management of contaminated sediments. To optimise management limits for metal contaminated sediments, we assess the appropriateness of a range methods for modifying SQGs based on bioavailability considerations. The impairment of reproduction of the amphipod, Melita plumulosa, and harpacticoid copepod, Nitocra spinipes, was assessed for sediments contaminated with copper from antifouling paint, located below aquaculture cages. The measurement of dilute acid-extractable copper (AE-Cu) was found to provide the most useful means for monitoring the risks posed by sediment copper and setting management limits. Acid-volatile sulfide was found to be ineffective as a SQG-modifying factor as these organisms live mostly at the more oxidised sediment water interface. SQGs normalised to %-silt/organic carbon were effective, but the benefits gained were too small to justify this approach. The effectiveness of SQGs based on AE-Cu was attributed to a small portion of the total copper being present in potentially bioavailable forms (typically<10% of the total). Much of the non-bioavailable form of copper was likely present as paint flakes in the form of copper (I) oxide, the active ingredient of the antifoulant formulation. While the concentrations of paint-associated copper are very high in some sediments, as the transformation of this form of copper to AE-Cu appears slow, monitoring and management limits should assess the more bioavailable AE-Cu forms, and further efforts be made to limit the release of paint particles into the environment. 
Development of an attached-growth process for the on-site bioremediation of an aquifer polluted by chlorinated solvents.	A procedure for the design of an aerobic cometabolic process for the on-site degradation of chlorinated solvents in a packed bed reactor was developed using groundwater from an aquifer contaminated by trichloroethylene (TCE) and 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane (TeCA). The work led to the selection of butane among five tested growth substrates, and to the development and characterization from the site's indigenous biomass of a suspended-cell consortium capable to degrade TCE (first order constant: 96 L gprotein(-1) day(-1) at 30 C and 4.3 L gprotein(-1) day(-1) at 15 C) with a 90 % mineralization of the organic chlorine. The consortium immobilization had strong effects on the butane and TCE degradation rates. The microbial community structure was slightly changed by a temperature shift from 30 to 15 C, but remarkably affected by biomass adhesion. Given the higher TCE normalized degradation rate (0.59 day(-1) at 15 C) and attached biomass concentration (0.13 gprotein Lbioreactor(-1) at 15 C) attained, the porous ceramic carrier Biomax was selected as the best option for the packed bed reactor process. The low TeCA degradation rate exhibited by the developed consortium suggested the inclusion of a chemical pre-treatment based on the TeCA to TCE conversion via -elimination, a very fast reaction at alkaline pH. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this represents the first attempt to develop a procedure for the development of a packed bed reactor process for the aerobic cometabolism of chlorinated solvents.
A multidisciplinary weight of evidence approach for environmental risk assessment at the Costa Concordia wreck: Integrative indices from Mussel Watch.	A complex framework of chemical, biological and oceanographic activities was immediately activated after the Costa Concordia shipwreck, to assess possible contamination events and the environmental impact during both emergency and wreck removal operations. In the present paper, we describe the results obtained with caged mussels, Mytilus galloprovincialis, chosen as bioindicator organisms to detect variations of bioavailability and the early onset of molecular and cellular effects (biomarkers). Seven translocation experiments were carried out during the first year from the incident, with organisms deployed at 2 depths in 3 different sites. After 4-6 weeks, tissue concentrations were measured for the main classes of potentially released chemicals (trace metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, volatile and aliphatic hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls, halogenated pesticides, organotin compounds, brominated flame retardants, anionic surfactants); a wide battery of biomarkers covered responses indicative of exposure, detoxification, oxidative stress, cell damage and genotoxic effects. Results excluded serious contamination events or a consistent increase of environmental pollution although some episodic spills with reversible effects were detected. Data were elaborated within a quantitative weight of evidence (WOE) model which provided synthetic hazard indices for each typology of data, before their overall integration in an environmental risk index, which generally ranged from slight to moderate. The proposed WOE model was confirmed a useful tool to summarize large datasets of complex data in integrative indices, and to simplify the interpretation for stakeholders and decision makers, thus supporting a more comprehensive process of "site-oriented" management decisions. 
Effect of herbicide adjuvants on the biodegradation rate of the methylthiotriazine herbicide prometryn.	A microbial community, selected by its ability to degrade triazinic herbicides was acclimatized by successive transfers in batch cultures. Initially, its ability to degrade prometryn, was evaluated using free cells or cells attached to fragments of a porous support. As carbon, nitrogen and sulfur sources, prometryn, (98.8 % purity), or Gesagard, a herbicide formulation containing 44.5 % prometryn and 65.5 % of adjuvants, were used. In batch cultures, a considerable delay in the degradation of prometryn, presumptively caused by the elevated concentration of inhibitory adjuvants, occurred. When pure prometryn was used, volumetric removal rates remarkably higher than those obtained with the herbicide formulation were estimated by fitting the raw experimental data to sigmoidal decay models, and differentiating them. When the microbial consortium was immobilized in a continuously operated biofilm reactor, the negative effect of adjuvants on the rate and removal efficiency of prometryn could not be detected. Using the herbicide formulation, the consortium showed volumetric removal rates greater than 20 g m(-3) h(-1), with prometryn removal efficiencies of 100 %. The predominant bacterial strains isolated from the microbial consortium were Microbacterium sp., Enterobacter sp., Acinetobacter sp., and Flavobacterium sp. Finally, by comparison of the prometryn removal rates with others reported in the literature, it can be concluded that the use of microbial consortia immobilized in a biofilm reactor operated in continuous regime offer better results than batch cultures of pure microbial strains.
Fluidized-bed denitrification for mine waters. Part II: effects of Ni and Co.	The dispersion of nitrogenous compounds and heavy metals into the environment is frequent during mining activities. The effects of nickel (Ni) and cobalt (Co) on denitrification of simulated mine waters were investigated in batch bioassays and fluidized-bed reactors (FBRs). At pH 7, batch tests revealed that Co did not exhibit inhibition on denitrification even at 86.6 mg/L. Ni showed to be inhibitory at 50 and 100 mg/L by decreasing nitrate removal efficiencies of 18 and 65 %, respectively. In two FBRs, operated at 7-8 and 22 C, 5.5 mg/L Ni did not affect nitrate and nitrite removals because of FBR potential of diluting soluble Ni feed concentration. On the contrary, the effluent pH clearly decreased in both FBR1 and FBR2 because of nickel sulfide precipitation and Ni inhibition of the last two steps of denitrification. When Ni injection was stopped, the process recovered more slowly at 22 than 7-8 C. This is the first study reporting the effect of Ni on denitrification in biological FBRs.
Fluidized-bed denitrification for mine waters. Part I: low pH and temperature operation.	Mining often leads to nitrate and metal contamination of groundwater and water bodies. Denitrification of acidic water was investigated in two up-flow fluidized-bed reactors (FBR) and using batch assays. Bacterial communities were enriched on ethanol plus nitrate in the FBRs. Initially, the effects of temperature, low-pH and ethanol/nitrate on denitrification were revealed. Batch assays showed that pH 4.8 was inhibitory to denitrification, whereas FBR characteristics permitted denitrification even at feed pH of 2.5 and at 7-8 C. Nitrate and ethanol were removed and the feed pH was neutralized, provided that ethanol was supplied in excess to nitrate. Subsequently, Fe(II) and Cu impact on denitrification was investigated within batch tests at pH 7. Iron supplementation up to 100 mg/L resulted in iron oxidation and soluble concentrations ranging from 0.4 to 1.6 mg/L that stimulated denitrification. On the contrary, 0.7 mg/L of soluble Cu significantly slowed denitrification down resulting in about 45 % of inhibition in the first 8 h. Polymerase chain reaction-denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis demonstrated the co-existence of different denitrifying microbial consortia in FBRs. Dechloromonas denitrificans and Hydrogenophaga caeni were present in both FBRs and mainly responsible for nitrate reduction.
In vitro comparative analysis of monocrotophos degrading potential of Aspergillus flavus, Fusarium pallidoroseum and Macrophomina sp.	Fungal degradation is emerging as a new powerful tool for the removal of potent neurotoxin pesticide, monocrotophos. Therefore, the present study is aimed at comparative characterization of monocrotophos degrading ability of three different fungal strains. Fungal strains were isolated from local agricultural soil by enrichment culture method, screened by gradient culture and identified as Aspergillus flavus, Fusarium pallidoroseum and Macrophomina sp. Growth kinetics revealed a direct positive influence of monocrotophos on the viability of fungal isolates. Fungal degradation was studied in phosphorus free liquid culture medium supplemented with 150 mg L(-1) concentration of monocrotophos for a period of 15 days under optimized culture conditions. Degradation of MCP followed first order kinetics with kdeg of 0.007, 0.002 and 0.005 day(-1) and half life (t1/2) of 4.21, 12.64 and 6.32 days for A. flavus, F. pallidoroseum and Macrophomina sp. respectively. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first report signifying the potential of monocrotophos degradation by Fusarium and Macrophomina sp. The results were further confirmed by HPTLC and FTIR which indicates disappearance of monocrotophos by hydrolytic cleavage of vinyl phosphate bond. Degradation of monocrotophos by fungal isolates was accompanied by the release of extracellular alkaline phosphatases, inorganic phosphates and ammonia. The overall comparative analysis followed the order of A. flavus > Macrophomina sp. > F. pallidoroseum. Therefore, it could be concluded from the study that these three different fungal strains could be effectively used as a potential candidate for the removal of monocrotophos from contaminated sites.
Perchlorate trophic transfer increases tissue concentrations above ambient water exposure alone in a predatory fish.	This study examined effects of varying concentrations of the environmental contaminant perchlorate in northern pike (Esox lucius) based on exposure in water and/or from prey (threespine stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus). Routes of exposure to pike were through contaminated water at 0, 10, or 100 mg/L perchlorate for 49 d and/or through feeding, 1 per day over 14 d, sticklebacks that were previously maintained in water at 0, 10, or 100 mg/L perchlorate. Both water and food significantly contributed to pike tissue concentrations of perchlorate as compared to controls, but, as expected for a water-soluble contaminant, perchlorate did not biomagnify from prey to predatory fish. Pike gastrointestinal tissue retained significantly more perchlorate than other tissues combined. Route of exposure and concentration of perchlorate in various media are important to consider in risk assessment when evaluating uptake and tissue concentration of perchlorate because significantly higher tissue concentrations may result from combined prey and water exposures than from prey or water exposures alone in a concentration-dependent manner. 
Environmental risk assessment on capsaicin used as active substance for antifouling system on ships.	Biodegradation experiments were carried out with capsaicin to evaluate its degradability. The results show that capsaicin was readily biodegradable under aerobic conditions. The values of Kow and the calculated bioconcentration factor indicate that capsaicin have a low potential for bioconcentration. The fish acute toxicity tests conducted with Brachydanio rerio show LC50 for capsaicin was 5.98 mg L(-1). The tests of alga growth inhibition conducted with Selenastrum capricornutum suggest EC50 for capsaicin was 114 mg L(-1). The calculated PNEC (Predicted No Effect Concentration) was 4.910(-4) mg L(-1). The average PEC (Predicted Environmental Concentration) for OECD-EU commercial harbor and marina were 3.9910(-6) and 2.4910(-5) mg L(-1), respectively. These indicate that the PEC was much less than the PNEC for capsaicin. The low Kp value of capsaicin suggests the data about the risk of capsaicin to sediment organisms can be waived. According to the results from the analysis of the degradation, bioaccumulation, toxicity and accumulation in sediment, it can be concluded that capsaicin used as active substance for antifouling system on ships poses relatively low risk to marine environment.
Importance of fish gender as a factor in environmental monitoring of mercury.	Total mercury concentrations were determined in the gonadal tissues of 15 female and 10 male European perch (Perca fluviatilis) from one location of the stream "Jevansk potok" located about 30km from Prague (Czech Republic). Tissue samples were frozen at -26C in polypropylene containers until further processing, which was carried out using an Advance Mercury Analyser (single purpose atomic absorption spectrometer). Mercury concentrations were present in all analysed gonad samples, and ranged from 2.3 to 12.7g/kg wet weight. However, we determined a mean Hg concentration (9.45g/kg) in male gonads that was 2.4 times greater than that of female gonads (3.9g/kg). This is an important finding when taking into account fish sex in environmental pollution monitoring (especially for mercury contamination). 
Effect of ibuprofen exposure on blood, gill, liver, and brain on common carp (Cyprinus carpio) using oxidative stress biomarkers.	Although trace concentrations of ibuprofen (IBP) have been detected in diverse water bodies, there is currently insufficient information on the potentially deleterious effects of this xenobiotic. The present study aimed to determine whether IBP induces oxidative stress in brain, liver, gill, and blood of the common carp Cyprinus carpio. To this end, the median lethal concentration at 96 h (96-h LC50) was determined and the lowest observed adverse effect level was established. Carp were exposed to the latter concentration (17.6 mg L(-1)) for 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h, and the following biomarkers were evaluated: lipid peroxidation (LPX) and activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase. Results indicated that LPX and antioxidant enzymes' activity increased significantly (p < 0.05) with respect to the control group in liver, gill, and blood, while no significant differences occurred in brain. In conclusion, IBP induced oxidative stress on C. carpio, the liver being the organ most affected by this damage.
Biological nutrient removal in a sequencing batch reactor operated as oxic/anoxic/extended-idle regime.	Previous researches have demonstrated that biological phosphorus removal from wastewater could be induced by oxic/extended-idle (O/EI) regime. In this study, an anoxic period was introduced after the aeration to realize biological nutrient removal. High nitrite accumulation ratio and polyhydroxyalkanoates biosynthesis were obtained in the aeration and biological nutrient removal could be well achieved in oxic/anoxic/extended-idle (O/A/EI) regime for the wastewater used. In addition, nitrogen and phosphorus removal performance in O/A/EI regime was compared with that in conventional anaerobic/anoxic/aerobic (A(2)/O) and O/EI processes. The results showed that O/A/EI regime exhibited higher nitrogen and phosphorus removal than A(2)/O and O/EI processes. More ammonium oxidizing bacteria and polyphosphate accumulating organisms and less glycogen accumulating organisms containing in the biomass might be the principal reason for the better nitrogen and phosphorus removal in O/A/EI regime. Furthermore, biological nutrient removal with O/A/EI regime was demonstrated with municipal wastewater. The average TN, SOP and COD removal efficiencies were 93%, 95% and 87%, respectively. 
A stable synergistic microbial consortium for simultaneous azo dye removal and bioelectricity generation.	Microbial species coexist in natural or engineered settings, where they encounter extensive competition and cooperation. Interactions occurring through metabolite exchange or direct contact might be important in establishment of functional biodegradation consortium. Understanding these interactions can facilitate manipulation of selected communities and exploitation of their capacity for specific industrial applications. Here, a simple dual-species consortium (Pseudomonas putida and Shewanella oneidensis) was established for examining simultaneous Congo red bioremediation in planktonic culture and power generation in anode biofilms. Compared to mono-species cultures, co-cultures generated higher current densities and could concurrently degrade Congo red over 72h. Disabling the large secreted adhesion protein, LapA, of P. putida greatly enhanced S. oneidensis biofilm formation on the anode, which increased power generation in co-cultures. This demonstrates simultaneous control of specific planktonic and biofilm communities could be effective in manipulating microbial communities for targeted applications. 
Control of nitratation in an oxygen-limited autotrophic nitrification/denitrification rotating biological contactor through disc immersion level variation.	With oxygen supply playing a crucial role in an oxygen-limited autotrophic nitrification/denitrification (OLAND) rotating biological contactor (RBC), its controlling factors were investigated in this study. Disc rotation speeds (1.8 and 3.6rpm) showed no influence on the process performance of a lab-scale RBC, although abiotic experiments showed a significant effect on the oxygenation capacity. Estimations of the biological oxygen uptake rate revealed that 85-89% of the oxygen was absorbed by the microorganisms during the air exposure of the discs. Indeed, increasing the disc immersion (50 to 75-80%) could significantly suppress undesired nitratation, on the short and long term. The presented results demonstrated that nitratation could be controlled by the immersion level and revealed that oxygen control in an OLAND RBC should be predominantly based on the atmospheric exposure percentage of the discs. 
Fungal and enzymatic treatment of mature municipal landfill leachate.	The aim of our study was to evaluate biotreatability of mature municipal landfill leachate by using white rot fungus and its extracellular enzymes. Leachates were collected in one active and one closed regional municipal landfill. Both chosen landfills were operating for many years and the leachates generated there were polluted by organic and inorganic compounds. The white rot fungus Dichomitus squalens was able to grow in the mature leachate from the closed landfill and as it utilizes present organic matter as a source of carbon, the results were showing 60% of DOC and COD removal and decreased toxicity to the bacterium Aliivibrio fischeri. On the other hand, growth of the fungus was inhibited in the presence of the leachate from the active landfill. However, when the leachate was introduced to a crude enzyme filtrate containing extracellular ligninolytic enzymes, removal levels of COD and DOC reached 61% and 44%, respectively. Furthermore, the treatment led to detoxification of the leachate to the bacterium Aliivibrio fischeri and to reduction of toxicity (42%) to the plant Sinapis alba. Fungal and enzymatic treatment seems to be a promising biological approach for treatment of mature landfill leachates and their application should be further investigated. 
Uptake and accumulation of antimicrobials, triclocarban and triclosan, by food crops in a hydroponic system.	Commonly used in personal care products, triclocarban (TCC) and triclosan (TCS) are two chemicals with antimicrobial properties that have recently been recognized as environmental contaminants with the potential to adversely affect human health. The objective of the study described herein was to evaluate the potential of food crops to uptake TCC and TCS. Eleven food crops, grown in hydroponic nutrient media, were exposed to a mixture of 500gL(-1) TCC and TCS. After 4weeks of exposure, roots accumulated 86-1,350mgkg(-1) of antimicrobials and shoots had accumulated 0.33-5.35mgkg(-1) of antimicrobials. Translocation from roots to shoots was less than 1.9% for TCC and 3.7% for TCS, with the greatest translocation for TCC observed for pepper, celery, and asparagus and for TCS observed for cabbage, broccoli, and asparagus. For edible tuber- or bulb-producing crops, the concentrations of both TCC and TCS were lower in the tubers than in the roots. Exposure calculations using national consumption data indicated that the average exposure to TCC and TCS from eating contaminated crops was substantially less than the exposure expected to cause adverse effects, but exceeded the predicted exposure from drinking water. Exposure to antimicrobials through food crops would be substantially reduced through limiting consumption of beets and onions. 
Ecotoxicological effects of perfluorooctanoic acid on freshwater microalgae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Scenedesmus obliquus.	As a persistent bioaccumulative compound, perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is found in various ecosystems and receives growing attention. The acute toxicity of PFOA was tested on 2 freshwater microalgae, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Scenedesmus obliquus. The 96-h concentration for 50% of maximal effect (EC50) values were measured, physiological responses of the algae were investigated, and uptake of PFOA by the algae was quantified. The EC50 values for C. reinhardtii and S. obliquus were 51.91.0mg/L and 44.01.5mg/L PFOA, respectively. After 8-d exposure to PFOA ranging from 10mg/L to 40mg/L, the growth of C. reinhardtii was significantly inhibited, whereas that of S. obliquus was only slightly suppressed. Increases in malonaldehyde and proline levels were observed in the 2 algae when exposed to PFOA at certain concentrations, for instance, 20mg/L and 40mg/L, which is indicative of the trigger of a defensive mechanism. The percentage of PFOA that was adsorbed by the algae after 8-d exposure at a dosage between 5mg/L and 20mg/L ranged from 5.5% to 7.5%, and the uptake of PFOA by the algae exceeded 10%.
Effects of increasing temperatures on biomarker responses and accumulation of hazardous substances in rope mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) from Bizerte lagoon.	This study examined the influence of increasing temperatures in spring and summer on biochemical biomarkers in Mytilus galloprovincialis mussels sampled from Bizerte lagoon (northern Tunisia). Spatial and seasonal variations in a battery of seven biomarkers were analyzed in relation to environmental parameters (temperature, salinity, and pH), physiological status (condition and gonad indexes), stress on stress (SoS), and chemical contaminant levels (heavy metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and PCBs) in digestive glands. Integrated biological response (IBR) was calculated using seven biomarkers (acetylcholinesterase (AChE), benzo[a]pyrene hydroxylase (BPH), multixenobiotic resistance (MXR), glutathione S-transferase (GST), catalase (CAT), malondialdehyde (MDA), and metallothioneins (MT). Seasonal variations in biological response were determined during a critical period between spring and summer at two sites, where chemical contamination varies by a factor of 2 for heavy metals and a factor 2.5 for PAHs. The analysis of a battery of biomarkers was combined with the measurement of physiological parameters at both sites, in order to quantify a maximum range of metabolic regulation with a temperature increase of 11 C between May and August. According to our results, the MT, MDA, CAT, and AChE biomarkers showed the highest amplitude during the 11C rise, while the BPH, GST, and MXR biomarkers showed the lowest amplitude. Metabolic amplitude measured with the IBR at Menzel Abdelrahmen-the most severely contaminated station-revealed the highest metabolic stress in Bizerte lagoon in August, when temperatures were highest 29.1C. This high metabolic rate was quantified for each biomarker in the North African lagoon area and confirmed in August, when the highest IBR index values were obtained at the least contaminated site 2 (IBR = 9.6) and the most contaminated site 1 (IBR = 19.6). The combined effects of chemical contamination and increased salinity and temperatures in summer appear to induce a highest metabolic adaptation response and can therefore be used to determine thresholds of effectiveness and facilitate the interpretation of monitoring biomarkers. This approach, applied during substantial temperature increases at two sites with differing chemical contamination, is a first step toward determining an environmental assessment criteria (EAC) threshold in a North African lagoon. 
Evaluation of in vitro efficacy for decolorization and degradation of commercial azo dye RB-B by Morganella sp. HK-1 isolated from dye contaminated industrial landfill.	Reactive Black-B (RB-B) - one of the multi-sulphonated reactive azo dye - is being used extensively in textile as well as paper industries. Reactive azo dyes comprise of a significant group of synthetic compounds categorized as xenobiotics and its abatement from the environment still remains a challenge. In the present study, a newly isolated indigenous bacterial strain Morganella sp. HK-1 was exploited for its ability to decolorize and degrade RB-B dye. The isolate completely degraded RB-B (20 g L(-1)) within 24h under static conditions. Furthermore, the visible and FTIR spectral analysis established the bio-degradation of RB-B. The degraded metabolites of RB-B by Morganella sp. HK-1 were identified by GC-MS analysis as disodium 3,4,6-triamino-5-hydroxynaphthalene-2,7-disulfonate, 4-aminophenylsulfonylethyl hydrogen sulfate, naphthalene-1-ol, aniline and benzene. Based on this information, a putative pathway of degradation of RB-B by Morganella sp. HK-1 has been proposed. This study is the first report on elucidation of mechanism of bacterial degradation of RB-B dye. Furthermore, phytotoxicity, genotoxicity and aquatic acute toxicity studies of the parent dye and the bio-degraded dye products revealed drastic reduction in the toxicity of metabolites as compared to the parent dye. This implies that the biotreatment of the dye is of non-toxic nature. This study thus indicates the effectiveness of Morganella sp. HK-1 for the treatment of textile effluents containing sulphonated azo dyes.
Effects of atrazine and chlorpyrifos on cytochrome P450 in common carp liver.	Atrazine (ATR) and chlorpyrifos (CPF), widely used in agriculture, have resulted in a series of toxicological and environmental problems. We investigated the activities of the biotransformation enzymes ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) and pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (PROD), total cytochrome P450 (CYP), CYP1A mRNA level and level of tissue ATR, CPF, and their metabolites in the liver of common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) after a 40-d exposure to CPF and ATR, alone or in combination, and a 20-d recovery. In the present study, juvenile common carp was exposed to ATR (at concentrations of 4.28, 42.8 and 428 g L(-1)), CPF (1.16, 11.6 and 116 g L(-1)), and ATR/CPF mixture (at concentrations of 1.13, 11.3 and 113 g L(-1)). A general increasing trend for the activity of the biotransformation enzymes (EROD and PROD), CYP and CYP1A mRNA level was observed in the liver of common carp exposed to ATR, CPF and the ATR/CPF mixture. In addition, ATR, CPF, and their metabolites demonstrated a high accumulation in the liver. These results demonstrated that the CYP system in fish could be used as a biomarkers in evaluating the impact of ATR and CPF exposure on the common carp.
Support vector regression model of wastewater bioreactor performance using microbial community diversity indices: effect of stress and bioaugmentation.	The relationship between microbial community structure and function has been examined in detail in natural and engineered environments, but little work has been done on using microbial community information to predict function. We processed microbial community and operational data from controlled experiments with bench-scale bioreactor systems to predict reactor process performance. Four membrane-operated sequencing batch reactors treating synthetic wastewater were operated in two experiments to test the effects of (i) the toxic compound 3-chloroaniline (3-CA) and (ii) bioaugmentation targeting 3-CA degradation, on the sludge microbial community in the reactors. In the first experiment, two reactors were treated with 3-CA and two reactors were operated as controls without 3-CA input. In the second experiment, all four reactors were additionally bioaugmented with a Pseudomonas putida strain carrying a plasmid with a portion of the pathway for 3-CA degradation. Molecular data were generated from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis targeting the 16S rRNA and amoA genes from the sludge community. The electropherograms resulting from these T-RFs were used to calculate diversity indices - community richness, dynamics and evenness - for the domain Bacteria as well as for ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in each reactor over time. These diversity indices were then used to train and test a support vector regression (SVR) model to predict reactor performance based on input microbial community indices and operational data. Considering the diversity indices over time and across replicate reactors as discrete values, it was found that, although bioaugmentation with a bacterial strain harboring a subset of genes involved in the degradation of 3-CA did not bring about 3-CA degradation, it significantly affected the community as measured through all three diversity indices in both the general bacterial community and the ammonia-oxidizer community (=0.5). The impact of bioaugmentation was also seen qualitatively in the variation of community richness and evenness over time in each reactor, with overall community richness falling in the case of bioaugmented reactors subjected to 3-CA and community evenness remaining lower and more stable in the bioaugmented reactors as opposed to the unbioaugmented reactors. Using diversity indices, 3-CA input, bioaugmentation and time as input variables, the SVR model successfully predicted reactor performance in terms of the removal of broad-range contaminants like COD, ammonia and nitrate as well as specific contaminants like 3-CA. This work was the first to demonstrate that (i) bioaugmentation, even when unsuccessful, can produce a change in community structure and (ii) microbial community information can be used to reliably predict process performance. However, T-RFLP may not result in the most accurate representation of the microbial community itself, and a much more powerful prediction tool can potentially be developed using more sophisticated molecular methods. 
Mortality and deformities in European lobster (Homarus gammarus) juveniles exposed to the anti-parasitic drug teflubenzuron.	This study describes experiments carried out to examine effects of the antiparasitic drug teflubenzuron, used in delousing farmed salmon, on a non-target species, the European lobster (Homarus gammarus). Juvenile lobsters were fed two doses of teflubenzuron, 10 and 20mg/kg successively for 7 days corresponding to a standard medication of the fish (10mg/kg day) and twice the standard dose (20mg/kg day). Monitoring lasted 3 months to include at least one moulting period for all individuals. Cumulative mortality was higher in all replicates given medicated feed compared with the control group. Mean cumulative mortality for each dosing was 41  13% for 10mg/kg and 38  8% for 20mg/kg, i.e. no difference. Drug residue was analysed in all juveniles that died, in addition to 12 juveniles at day 8 and the first 12 surviving lobsters. A decline in concentration of teflubenzuron from over 8,000 ng/g (day 5) to 14 ng/g (day 70) was observed in the juveniles that died during the experiment. Twelve individuals that died contained 82 ng/g or less whereas the mean concentration in the first 12 lobsters that survived moulting was 152 ng/g. Following a single oral administration, the half-life of teflubenzuron in lobster was estimated to 3.4 days and the initial concentration (C0) to 515 ng/g at time t0. At the end of the study a considerable number of juvenile lobsters were observed with deformities in various organs; carapace, walking legs, cheliped, tail fan, abdomen and antenna. The occurrence of observed deformities varied from 0 to 15% in treated replicates and will most likely affect ability to locate and consume food (antenna, claw and walking legs), respiration (carapace) and ability to move/swim (walking legs, tail fan and abdomen). In total, the mortality and senescent damages were close to 50% in all replicates. Juveniles that survived medication without deformities however, moulted and increased in size at each moult equally well as the unmedicated controls.
Interspecific and geographical variations of trace metal concentrations in cephalopods from Tunisian waters.	The concentrations of six metals (Ag, Cd, Cu, Hg, Pb, and Zn) were investigated and compared in three tissues (arms, digestive gland, and mantle) of three cephalopod species from the Tunisian waters: the common octopus (Octopus vulgaris), the common cuttlefish (Sepia officinalis), and the European squid (Loligo vulgaris). Whatever the species or the sites, the digestive gland displayed the highest concentrations of Ag, Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn, highlighting its major role in their bioaccumulation and detoxification. This is also true for Hg but only for the digestive gland of O. vulgaris. Muscle from the arms and the mantle contained thus relatively low trace metal concentrations except for Hg in L. vulgaris and S. officinalis. Geographic comparison of metal concentrations in Tunisian cephalopods from three locations indicates that higher concentrations of Ag, Pb, and Hg were observed in cephalopods from northern and eastern coasts, whereas the highest Cd levels were detected in the southeastern, reflecting different conditions of exposure. Comparing the trace element concentrations between species, Ag, Cd, Cu, Hg, and Zn concentrations were the highest in the digestive gland of octopuses. This may be related to the differences in ecological features and swimming behavior among different cephalopod species. Effects of length and sex on metal levels were also considered, indicating a limited influence of sex on metal concentration.
Potential of phytoremediation for the removal of petroleum hydrocarbons in contaminated salt marsh sediments.	Degradation of petroleum hydrocarbons in colonized and un-colonized sediments by salt marsh plants Juncus maritimus and Phragmites australis collected in a temperate estuary was investigated during a 5-month greenhouse experiment. The efficiency of two bioremediation treatments namely biostimulation (BS) by the addition of nutrients, and bioaugmentation (BA) by addition of indigenous microorganisms was tested in comparison with hydrocarbon natural attenuation in un-colonized and with rhizoremediation in colonized sediments. Hydrocarbon degrading microorganisms and root biomass were assessed as well as hydrocarbon degradation levels. During the study, hydrocarbon degradation in un-colonized sediments was negligible regardless of treatments. Rhizoremediation proved to be an effective strategy for hydrocarbon removal, yielding high rates in most experiments. However, BS treatments showed a negative effect on the J.maritimus potential for hydrocarbon degradation by decreasing the root system development that lead to lower degradation rates. Although both plants and their associated microorganisms presented a potential for rhizoremediation of petroleum hydrocarbons in contaminated salt marsh sediments, results highlighted that nutrient requirements may be distinct among plant species, which should be accounted for when designing cleanup strategies. 
Assessment of the nutrient removal effectiveness of floating treatment wetlands applied to urban retention ponds.	The application of floating treatment wetlands (FTWs) in point and non-point source pollution control has received much attention recently. Although the potential of this emerging technology is supported by various studies, quantifying FTW performance in urban retention ponds remains elusive due to significant research gaps. Actual urban retention pond water was utilized in this mesocosm study to evaluate phosphorus and nitrogen removal efficiency of FTWs. Multiple treatments were used to investigate the contribution of each component in the FTW system with a seven-day retention time. The four treatments included a control, floating mat, pickerelweed (Pontederia cordata L.), and softstem bulrush (Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani). The water samples collected on Day 0 (initial) and 7 were analyzed for total phosphorus (TP), total particulate phosphorus, orthophosphate, total nitrogen (TN), organic nitrogen, ammonia nitrogen, nitrate-nitrite nitrogen, and chlorophyll-a. Statistical tests were used to evaluate the differences between the four treatments. The effects of temperature on TP and TN removal rates of the FTWs were described by the modified Arrhenius equation. Our results indicated that all three FTW designs, planted and unplanted floating mats, could significantly improve phosphorus and nitrogen removal efficiency (%, E-TP and E-TN) compared to the control treatment during the growing season, i.e., May through August. The E-TP and E-TN was enhanced by 8.2% and 18.2% in the FTW treatments planted with the pickerelweed and softstem bulrush, respectively. Organic matter decomposition was likely to be the primary contributor of nutrient removal by FTWs in urban retention ponds. Such a mechanism is fostered by microbes within the attached biofilms on the floating mats and plant root surfaces. Among the results of the four treatments, the FTWs planted with pickerelweed had the highest E-TP, and behaved similarly with the other two FTW treatments for nitrogen removal during the growth period. The temperature effects described by the modified Arrhenius equation revealed that pickerelweed is sensitive to temperature and provides considerable phosphorus removal when water temperature is greater than 25C. However, the nutrient removal effectiveness of this plant species may be negligible for water temperatures below 15C. The study also assessed potential effects of shading from the FTW mats on water temperature, DO, pH, and attached-to-substrate periphyton/vegetation. 
A P450 gene associated with robust resistance to DDT in ciliated protozoan, Tetrahymena thermophila by efficient degradation.	Analysis of metabolic mechanisms of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) accumulation and degradation in microorganisms, which could be used to reduce its hazard to higher organisms at the higher in the food chain, have not been investigated. Robust resistance to DDT (grows well in 256 mg/L DDT) and a surprising ability to degrade DDT (more than 70% DDT within 4h) were found in the ciliated protozoan Tetrahymena thermophila. A P450 gene (CYP5013C2) was found to respond specifically to DDT treatment. In the presence of 256 mg/L DDT, cells with overexpressing CYP5013C2 (p450-OE) grew faster and degraded DDT more efficiently than wild-type (WT) cells, while cells with CYP5013C2 partially knocked down (p450-KD) grew slower and exhibited reduced ability to degrade DDT compared to WT cells. Both dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD) were detected in cells after exposure to DDT, and the concentration of DDD in the p450-OE strain gradually decreased from 0.5 to 4h. Thus, we argue that this P450 gene (CYP5013C2), by efficiently degrading DDT to DDD, is associated with robust resistance to DDT in Tetrahymena, and that a strain overexpressing this gene has the potential to serve as bioreactor that degrades environmental DDT.
Influence of the microbial loop on trophodynamics and toxicity of cadmium complexed by cyanobacterium exudates.	Cadmium (Cd) is an important industrial and toxic metal. Its fate and toxicity in the environment may be mediated by association with dissolved organic materials excreted by phytoplankton. The aim of the present study was to investigate the trophodynamics and toxicity of Cd complexed with Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii exudates in a plankton food chain. The microbial loop involves heterotrophic bacteria as the primary consumer, which is supplemented with a Cd-exudate complex. The secondary consumer (protozoan Paramecium caudatum) was fed on the bacteria, and the tertiary consumer (copepod Mesocyclops longisetus) on the protozoa. The Cd complexing properties of the exudate were determined before the experiments, to ensure that all Cd was furnished to the organisms as the organic complex alone. The results showed that free Cd2+ ions caused the highest observed toxicity to bacteria, while Cd complexed to the cyanobacterial exudate was less toxic, but could be bioavailable and transferred through the food web. This study is a contribution to aquatic ecosystem management and to current knowledge of Cd dynamics, bioavailability and interaction with aquatic planktonic organisms.
Bioaccumulation of perfluoroalkyl compounds in midge (Chironomus riparius) larvae exposed to sediment.	Midge larvae (Chironomus riparius) were exposed to sediments from a deposition sampled at a site along the Rhne River (France) downstream of an industrial site releasing various perfluorinated chemicals. This sediment is characterized by high concentrations of perfluoroundecanoic acid (PFUnA) and perfluorotridecanoic acid (PFTrDA) and a low perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) concentration. Concentrations of 23 perfluoroalkyl compounds, including C4-C14 carboxylate acids, C4-C10 sulfonates, and seven precursors, were analyzed in overlying and pore water, sediment, and larvae. Midge larvae accumulated carboxylate acids (C11-C14), PFOS, and two precursors (perfluorooctane sulfonamide: FOSA and 6:2 fluorotelomer sulfonic acid, 6:2 FTSA). These substances accumulated mainly during the fourth instar larvae exponential growth phase. Accumulation of 6:2 FTSA, PFUnA, and PFOS occured via trophic and tegumentary routes. Other compounds mainly accumulated from food. Kinetics followed a partition model, from which uptake and elimination constants were derived. 
Effects of chronic waterborne nickel exposure on growth, ion homeostasis, acid-base balance, and nickel uptake in the freshwater pulmonate snail, Lymnaea stagnalis.	The freshwater pulmonate snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, is the most sensitive aquatic organism tested to date for Ni. We undertook a series of experiments to investigate the underlying mechanism(s) for this observed hypersensitivity. Consistent with previous experiments, juvenile snail growth in a 21-day exposure was reduced by 48% relative to the control when exposed to 1.3 g l(-1) Ni (EC20 less than the lowest concentration tested). Ca(2+) homeostasis was significantly disrupted by Ni exposure as demonstrated by reductions in net Ca(2+) uptake, and reductions in Ca(2+) concentrations in the hemolymph and soft tissues. We also observed reduced soft tissue [Mg(2+)]. Snails underwent a significant alkalosis with hemolymph pH increasing from 8.1 to 8.3 and hemolymph TCO2 increasing from 19 to 22 mM in control versus Ni-exposed snails, respectively. Unlike in previous studies with Co and Pb, snail feeding rates were found to be unaffected by Ni at the end of the exposure. Snails accumulated Ni in the soft tissue in a concentration-dependent manner, and Ni uptake experiments with (63)Ni revealed a biphasic uptake profile - a saturable high affinity component at low exposure concentrations (36-189 nM) and a linear component at the high exposure concentrations (189-1,897 nM). The high affinity transport system had an apparent Km of 89 nM Ni(2+) and Vmax of 2.4 nmol g(-1)h(-1). This equates to a logK of 7.1, significantly higher than logK's (2.6-5.2) for any other aquatic organisms evaluated to date, which will have implications for Biotic Ligand Model development. Finally, pharmacological inhibitors that block Ca(2+) uptake pathways in snails did not inhibit Ni uptake, suggesting that the uptake of Ni does not occur via Ca(2+) uptake pathways. As with Cu and Pb, the exact mechanism for the significant disruption in Ca(2+) homeostasis and reduction in juvenile snail growth remains unknown.
Graphene nanoplatelets spontaneously translocate into the cytosol and physically interact with cellular organelles in the fish cell line PLHC-1.	Graphene and graphene derivatives constitute a novel class of carbon-based nanomaterials being increasingly produced and used in technical and consumer applications. Release of graphene nanoplatelets during the life cycle of these applications may result in human and environmental exposure calling for assessment of their potential to cause harm to humans and wildlife. This study aimed to assess the toxicity of graphene oxide (GO) and carboxyl graphene (CXYG) nanoplatelets to non-mammalian species using the fish cell line PLHC-1 as in vitro model. The cytotoxicity of GO and CXYG was assessed using different assays measuring alterations in plasma membrane integrity, metabolic activity, and lysosomal and mitochondrial function. The induction of oxidative stress was assessed by measuring intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. Interaction with the plasma membrane and internalization of nanoplatelets were investigated by electron microscopy. Graphene nanoplatelets spontaneously penetrated through the plasma membrane and accumulated in the cytosol, where they further interacted with mitochondrial and nuclear membranes. PLHC-1 cells demonstrated significantly reduced mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and increased ROS levels at 16 g/ml GO and CXYG (72 h), but barely any decrease in cell viability. The observation of intracellular graphene accumulations not enclosed by membranes suggests that GO and CXYG internalization in fish hepatoma cells occurs through an endocytosis-independent mechanism.
Dietary exposure of Daphnia to microcystins: no in vivo relevance of biotransformation.	Anthropogenic nutrient input into lakes has contributed to the increased frequency of toxic cyanobacterial blooms. Daphnia populations have been shown to be locally adapted to toxic cyanobacteria and are able to suppress bloom formation; little is known about the physiology behind this phenomenon. Microcystin-LR (MCLR) is the most widespread cyanobacterial toxin, and, based on in vitro experiments, it is assumed that the enzyme glutathione-S-transferase (GST) might act as the first step of detoxification in Daphnia by conjugating MCLR with glutathione. In the present study Daphnia magna was fed a diet of 100% Microcystis aeruginosa PCC7806, a cyanobacterial strain that contains MCLR in high amounts (4.8-5.6 fg cell(-1)), in order to test for a possible conjugation of MCLR with GST in Daphnia in vivo. We used high-resolution LCMS to analyze incubation water, cyanobacterial cells and Daphnia tissue for the presence of MCLR conjugation products as well as unconjugated MCLR. Newly formed conjugation products were detected neither in Daphnia tissue nor in the incubation water. Moreover, the presence of Daphnia led to a decrease in unconjugated MCLR in the cyanobacterial cell fraction due to grazing, in comparison to a control without daphnids, which was well reflected by a similar increase of MCLR in the respective incubation water. As a consequence, the MCLR content did not change due to Daphnia presence within the entire experimental setup. In summary, MCLR ingestion by Daphnia led neither to the formation of conjugation products, nor to a decrease of unconjugated MCLR. GST-mediated conjugation thus seems to be of minor relevance for microcystin (MC) tolerance in Daphnia in vivo. This finding is supported by the fact that GST activity in Daphnia feeding on the MC-containing wildtype or a MC-free mutant of M. aeruginosa PCC7806 revealed an identical increase of specific activity in comparison to a cyanobacteria-free diet. Therefore, the frequently observed induction of GST activity upon exposure to toxic cyanobacteria is not a specific MC effect but a general cyanobacterial effect. This suggests that GST in Daphnia is involved in an oxidative stress response rather than in the specific detoxification of MCs. Furthermore, our results indicate the presence of an efficient transport mechanism which efficiently removes unconjugated MCLR from the Daphnia tissue. Further studies are needed to elucidate the nature of this transport mechanism.
Co-treatment of landfill leachate in laboratory-scale sequencing batch reactors: analysis of system performance and biomass activity by means of respirometric techniques.	Aged or mature leachate, produced by old landfills, can be very refractory; for this reason mature leachate is difficult to treat alone, but it can be co-treated with sewage or domestic wastewater. The aim of the study was to investigate the feasibility of leachate co-treatment with synthetic wastewater, in terms of process performance and biomass activity, by means of respirometric techniques. Two sequencing batch reactors (SBRs), named SBR1 and SBR2, were fed with synthetic wastewater and two different percentages of landfill leachate (respectively 10% and 50% v v(-1) in SBR1 and SBR2). The results showed good chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal efficiency for both reactors, with average COD removals equal to 91.64 and 89.04% respectively for SBR1 and SBR2. Furthermore, both SBRs showed good ammonia-nitrogen (AN) removal efficiencies, higher than 60%, thus confirming the feasibility of leachate co-treatment with a readily biodegradable wastewater. Significant respiration rates were obtained for the heterotrophic population (average values of maximum oxygen uptake rate equal to 37.30 and 56.68 mg O2 L(-1) h(-1) respectively for SBR1 and SBR2), thus suggesting the feasibility of leachate co-treatment with synthetic wastewater. 
Investigating the role for adaptation of the microbial community to transform trace organic chemicals during managed aquifer recharge.	This study was undertaken to investigate whether adaptation by pre-exposure to trace organic chemicals (TOrCs) was necessary for microbial transformation during managed aquifer recharge (MAR). Two pairs of laboratory-scale soil columns, each receiving a different primary substrate, were utilized to simulate the dominant bulk organic carbon present in MAR systems receiving wastewater effluent of varying quality and having undergone different degrees of pre-treatment, as well as organic carbon prevalent at different stages of subsurface travel. Each pair of columns consisted of duplicate set-ups receiving the same feed solution with only one pre-exposed to a suite of eight TOrCs for approximately ten months. Following the pre-exposure period, a spiking experiment was conducted in which the non-exposed columns also received the same suite of TOrCs. TOrC attenuation was quantified for the pre- and non-exposed columns of each pair during the spiking experiment. The microbial community structure and function of these systems were characterized by pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene and metagenomics, respectively. Biotransformation rather than sorption was identified as the dominant removal mechanism for almost all the TOrCs (except triclocarban). Similar removal efficiencies were observed between pre-exposed and non-exposed columns for most TOrCs. No obvious differences in microbial community structure were revealed between pre- and non-exposed columns. Using metagenomics, biotransformation capacity potentials of the microbial community present were also similar between pre- and non-exposed columns of each pair. Overall, the pre-exposure of MAR systems to TOrCs at ng/L levels did not affect their attenuation and had no obvious influence on the resulting microbial community structure and function. Thus, other factors such as bioavailability of the primary substrate play a greater role regarding biotransformation of TOrCs. These results indicate that MAR systems adapted to a primary substrate are capable of degrading TOrC without necessarily being pre-exposed to them, making MAR a robust treatment barrier for biodegradable TOrCs. 
Equilibrium and kinetic studies of Cd biosorption by the brown algae Sargassum fusiforme.	A fundamental investigation of the biosorption of Cd2+ from aqueous solution by the edible seaweed Sargassum fusiforme was performed under batch conditions. The influences of experimental parameters, such as the initial pH, sorption time, temperature, and initial Cd2+ concentration, on Cd2+ uptake by S. fusiforme were evaluated. The results indicated that the biosorption of Cd2+ depended on the initial Cd2+ concentration, as well as the pH. The uptake of Cd2+ could be described by the Langmuir isotherm model, and both the Langmuir biosorption equilibrium constant and the maximum biosorption capacity of the monolayer decreased with increasing temperature, thereby confirming the exothermic character of the sorption process. The biosorption kinetics follows the pseudo-second-order kinetic model, and intraparticle diffusion is the sole rate-limiting step for the entire biosorption period. These fundamental equilibrium and kinetic results can support further studies to the removal of cadmium from S. fusiforme harvested from cadmium-polluted waters.
Effects of aquatic humus on accumulation and acute toxicity of some organic micropollutants.	Accumulation experiments in a natural humic water revealed significantly lower bioconcentration of dehydroabietic acid and benzo(a)pyrene into Daphnia magna when compared with a standardized soft freshwater. For pentachlorophenol no such effect could be observed. Depending on the chemical involved, the natural humic water might affect the acute lethal toxicity of aquatic contaminants to this organism.
Effect of digested sewage sludge on the ventilation and coughing rates of two fresh water fish.	Addition of digested sewage sludge at concentrations of 2% and 10% (v/v) to the water increased coughing rate in big head and tilapia (P < 0.05). Ventilation rate was significantly decreased (P < 0.05) in big head and tilapia at sludge concentrations of 6% and 2% (v/v) respectively. Copper (Cu), cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn) are trace metals which are commonly found in sludge. Cu caused a significant increase (P < 0.05) in coughing rate in both tilapia and big head at concentrations of 0.3 and 0.2 microgram/ml respectively. Zn caused significant increase (P < 0.05) in coughing rate only in big head at 2 microgram/ml. Neither fish responded to Cd of up to 2 micrograms/ml in the water. However, when the levels of these trace metals in the digested sludge were measured, they were below that which can cause significant changes in the respiratory movements. Therefore, the changes in ventilation and coughing rates after addition of sludge may be due to the presence of substances other than these metals. The results of this experiment provides a guideline to control the level of sludge that can be used in rearing these fresh water fish in ponds.
Investigation of chromium (VI) tolerant bacteria.	Pseudomonas strains were isolated from a heavy metal contaminated sludge. Some of the strains grew on chromium (VI) containing medium, and others were inhibited in their growth. Cells were able to remove chromium from the medium. This ability was independent of the rate of their growth. The concentration of chromium (VI) of the media decreased with 15-20 ppm in presence of 10(9) cells. The chromium (VI) was converted into a reduced form of chromium by bacteria. The reduced form of chromium was bound in the cell wall. The bound form of chromium could be recovered more or less with different chemicals. The best percentages of recovery were achieved with NaOH solution.
Effect of hydrogen peroxide on the biodegradation of PCBs in anaerobically dechlorinated river sediments.	The ability to initiate aerobic conditions in dechlorinated anaerobic sediments was tested using hydrogen peroxide as an oxygenation agent. Hydrogen peroxide additions to the sediment induced aerobic polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) degraders as indicated first, by an increase in bacterial count and second by a decline in PCB concentration from 135 micrograms/g to 20 micrograms/g over a 96-day period. Dechlorinated anaerobic sediment seems also to harbor indigenous anaerobic and aerobic microorganisms with high PCB degradation abilities. Those results support the potential of in situ degradation of PCBs using a sequential anaerobic-aerobic technique.
Metal transfer in marine food chains: bioaccumulation and toxicity.	Metal transfer in marine food chains may be examined at different scales from field studies to cellular level. Some years ago, the major question was to verify the existence of metal biomagnification, a phenomenon which seems in fact to be limited to mercury and the radionuclide cesium-137. In numerous cases, metal incorporation is not determined chiefly by the trophic level in the food chain. It is also controlled by both the metabolic characteristics of species or populations and the biological role of each element. The most accurate assessment of trophic transfer may be by determining the physico-chemical state of metals in marine organisms, a methology which can be used for both field and experimental samples. Some species exhibiting high detoxication ability may be interpreted as highly contamined links in food chains but according to the nature of the detoxifying ligands--in outline, mineral granules or metalloproteins--the bioavailability to the next trophic level may vary widely.
Aspergilli and lignocellulosics: enzymology and biotechnological applications.	Aspergilli are versatile ascomycetes that are able to transform at a rapid rate a wide spectrum of lignin-related aromatic compounds. While it is clear that these fungi can degrade phenolic and polysaccharide components from lignocellulosic material, the status regarding degradation of high-molecular mass lignins is controversial. This review compiles data from the literature as well as that from the authors' laboratory with the aim of clarifying this point. The main body of evidence points towards the inability of aspergilli alone to degrade lignin free of low-molecular mass contaminants. Nevertheless, the ability of this genus to efficiently degrade hemicelluloses makes it an essential participant in the complex microbial system necessary for wood decay under natural conditions. Aspergilli are known to overproduce high levels of hemicellulolytic enzymes. Out of the large array of these enzymes that act in concert to degrade lignocellulosic material, only endoxylanases of aspergilli are described in so far as these are the main activities required for enzyme-aided bleaching. The biochemical features of the endoxylanases from Aspergillus niger are briefly described as these serve to illustrate how a complex family of isozymes is necessary to deal with the structural and chemical heterogeneity of xylans. Emphasis is placed on the biotechnological applications of lignocellulosic materials transformed by aspergilli. The key application areas are biopulping and biobleaching where a reduction in the use of environmentally harmful chemicals traditionally used in the pulp and paper industry is envisaged. Waste water treatment represents another vast application area where aspergilli have been shown to be effective not only in colour removal but also in the bioconversion of potentially noxious substances into useful bioproducts.
Genetic improvement of Escherichia coli for enhanced biological removal of phosphate from wastewater.	The ability of Escherichia coli MV1184 to accumulate inorganic phosphate (Pi) was enhanced by manipulating the genes involved in the transport and metabolism of Pi. The high-level Pi accumulation was achieved by modifying the genetic regulation and increasing the dosage of the E. coli genes encoding polyphosphate kinase (ppk), acetate kinase (ackA), and the phosphate-inducible transport system (pstS, pstC, pstA, and pstB). Acetate kinase was employed as an ATP regeneration system for polyphosphate synthesis. Recombinant strains, which contained either pBC29 (carrying ppk) or pEP02.2 (pst operon), removed approximately two- and threefold, respectively, more Pi from minimal medium than did the control strain. The highest rates of Pii removal were obtained by strain MV1184 containing pEP03 (ppk and ackA). However, unlike the control strain, MV1184 (pEP03) released Pi to the medium after growth had stopped. Drastic changes in growth and Pi uptake were observed when pBC29 (ppk) and pEP02.2 (pst operon) were introduced simultaneously into MV1184. Even though growth of this recombinant was severely limited in minimal medium, the recombinant could remove approximately threefold more Pi than the control strain. Consequently, the phosphorus content of this recombinant reached a maximum of approximately 16% on a dry weight basis (49% as phosphate).
Involvement of cytochromes in the anaerobic biotransformation of tetrachloromethane by Shewanella putrefaciens 200.	Shewanella putrefaciens 200 is an obligate respiratory bacterium that can utilize a variety of terminal electron acceptors, e.g., NO3-, NO2-, Fe(III), and trimethylamine N-oxide, in the absence of O2. The bacterium catalyzed the reductive transformation of tetrachloromethane (CT) under anaerobic conditions. The only identified product was trichloromethane (CF), but CF production was not stoichiometric. No dichloromethane, chloromethane, or methane was produced. A chloride mass balance indicated that fully dechlorinated products were not formed. Studies with [14C]CT suggested that a portion of the transformed CT reacted with biomass to form unidentified soluble and insoluble products. Intermediate production of a trichloromethyl radical can explain observed product distribution without significant CO2 formation. Evidence suggests that respiratory c-type cytochromes are responsible for the dehalogenation ability of S. putrefaciens 200. Previous growth under microaerobic conditions ([O2], < 2.5 microM) results in (i) a 2.6-fold increase in specific heme c content and (ii) a 2.3-fold increase in specific rates of anaerobic CT transformation. Manipulation of heme content by growth on iron-free medium or medium amended with delta-aminolevulinic acid showed that CT transformation rates increase with increases in specific heme c content. Transformation of CT is inhibited by CO. Dehalogenation studies with periplasmic, cytoplasmic, and membrane fractions indicated that only periplasmic and membrane fractions possessed dehalogenation ability. Cytochromes c were the predominant cytochromes present. Membranes were also found to contain smaller amounts of cytochrome b. Observed CT transformation patterns are consistent with a cometabolic description involving fortuitous CT reduction by reduced c-type cytochromes.
Detection of polychlorinated biphenyl degradation genes in polluted sediments by direct DNA extraction and polymerase chain reaction.	It was the aim of this study to specifically detect the DNA sequences for the bphC gene, the meta-cleavage enzyme of the aerobic catabolic pathway for biphenyl and polychlorinated biphenyl degradation, in aquatic sediments without prior cultivation of microorganisms by using extraction of total DNA, PCR amplification of bphC sequences, and detection with specific gene probes. The direct DNA extraction protocol used was modified to enhance lysis efficiency. Crude extracts of DNA were further purified by gel filtration, which yielded DNA that could be used for the PCR. PCR primers were designed for conserved regions of the bphC gene from a sequence alignment of five known sequences. The specificity of PCR amplification was verified by using digoxigenin-labeled DNA probes which were located internal to the amplified gene sequence. The detection limit for the bphC gene of Pseudomonas paucimobilis Q1 and Pseudomonas sp. strain LB400 was 100 cells per g (wet weight) or approximately five copies of the target sequence per PCR reaction mixture. In total-DNA extracts of aerobic top layers of sediment samples obtained from three different sampling sites along the Elbe River, which has a long history of anthropogenic pollution, Pseudomonas sp. strain LB 400-like sequences for the bphC gene were detected, but P. paucimobilis Q1 sequences were not detected. No bphC sequences were detected in an unpolluted lake sediment. A restriction analysis did not reveal any heterogeneity in the PCR product, and the possibility that sequences highly related to the bphC gene (namely, nahC and todE) were present was excluded.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activity of the xenobiotic metabolism system under the effect of chemical pollution of the atmosphere and water]	Functional state of the system involved in biotransformation of xenobiotics in animal liver tissue was studied under conditions of combined chemical contamination of atmospheric air and water simulating the typical real loading. The model loading studied caused in some cases an induction of the microsomal monooxygenases without activation of UDP-glucuronosyl transferase, but simultaneously with accumulation of malonic dialdehyde; this suggests that metabolic alterations observed may be involved in development of pathology.
Degradation of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid by haloalkaliphilic bacteria.	Three 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)-degrading bacterial isolates were obtained from the highly saline and alkaline Alkali Lake site in southwestern Oregon contaminated with 2,4-D production wastes. While similar in most respects, the three isolates differed significantly in 2,4-D degradation rates, with the most active strain, I-18, demonstrating an ability to degrade up to 3000 mg 2,4-D I-1 in 3 d. This strain was well adapted to the extreme environment from which it was isolated, growing optimally on 2,4-D at pH 8.4-9.4 and at sodium ion concentrations of 0.6-1.0 M. According to its optimum salt concentration and pH for growth, this isolate was a moderately halophilic, alkaliphilic bacterium. The 16S RNA gene sequence (303 nt) was identical for all three isolates and most closely resembled those of the moderately halophilic eubacteria of the family Halomonadaceae (91% identity). Biochemical and genetic examination revealed strain I-18 utilizes the same 2,4-D degradation pathway as most of the 2,4-D-degrading bacteria from non-extreme environments. Hybridization data and comparison of the partial sequences of the tfdA gene from the Alkali Lake isolates with those of bacteria from non-extreme environments suggested a common genetic origin of the 2,4-D degradation pathway in the two groups of micro-organisms.
Nitrous oxide production by Alcaligenes faecalis under transient and dynamic aerobic and anaerobic conditions.	Nitrous oxide can be a harmful by-product in nitrogen removal from wastewater. Since wastewater treatment systems operate under different aeration regimens, the influence of different oxygen concentrations and oxygen fluctuations on denitrification was studied. Continuous cultures of Alcaligenes faecalis TUD produced N2O under anaerobic as well as aerobic conditions. Below a dissolved oxygen concentration of 5% air saturation, the relatively highest N2O production was observed. Under these conditions, significant activities of nitrite reductase could be measured. After transition from aerobic to anaerobic conditions, there was insufficient nitrite reductase present to sustain growth and the culture began to wash out. After 20 h, nitrite reductase became detectable and the culture started to recover. Nitrous oxide reductase became measurable only after 27 h, suggesting sequential induction of the denitrification reductases, causing the transient accumulation of N2O. After transition from anaerobic conditions to aerobic conditions, nitrite reduction continued (at a lower rate) for several hours. N2O reduction appeared to stop immediately after the switch, indicating inhibition of nitrous oxide reductase, resulting in high N2O emissions (maximum, 1.4 mmol liter-1 h-1). The nitrite reductase was not inactivated by oxygen, but its synthesis was repressed. A half-life of 16 to 22 h for nitrite reductase under these conditions was calculated. In a dynamic aerobic-anaerobic culture of A. faecalis, a semisteady state in which most of the N2O production took place after the transition from anaerobic to aerobic conditions was obtained. The nitrite consumption rate in this culture was equal to that in an anaerobic culture (0.95 and 0.92 mmol liter-1 h-1, respectively), but the production of N2O was higher in the dynamic culture (28 and 26% of nitrite consumption, respectively).
Intrinsic bioremediation: an environmental restoration technology.	In the past year, there has been a dramatic maturation of intrinsic bioremediation technologies. As methods pertinent to the intrinsic bioremediation of fuel hydrocarbons have become better established, a comprehensive protocol has been developed for the validation and prediction of these processes. Study of intrinsic bioremediation of other prevalent contaminants, such as chlorinated aliphatics, polychlorinated biphenyls, and high explosives, has also been undertaken.
Relationships between descriptors for hydrophobicity and soft electrophilicity in predicting toxicity.	The toxicity of chemicals is orthogonal with individual molecular descriptors used to quantify hydrophobicity and soft electrophilicity when considering large data sets. Estimating the toxicity of reactive chemicals requires descriptors of both passive transport and the stereoelectronic interaction, which are largely independent processes. QSARs using either log P or an electronic parameter alone are only significant for sets of chemicals that represent special, albeit some important, cases in QSAR. Chemicals were clustered according to their reactivity as soft electrophiles by defining isoelectrophilic windows along the toxicity response surface. Within these narrow windows of reactivity, the variation of toxicity was explained by the variation of log P. We observed that the dependence of toxicity on log P in different isoelectrophilic windows decreased as reactivity increased. The data are consistent with toxicity models where competing nucleophilic interaction sites are distributed along the transport route of the chemicals.
The use of Escherichia coli bearing a phoN gene for the removal of uranium and nickel from aqueous flows.	A Citrobacter sp. originally isolated from metal-polluted soil accumulates heavy metals via metalphosphate deposition utilizing inorganic phosphate liberated via PhoN phosphatase activity. Further strain development was limited by the non-transformability of this environmental isolate. Recombinant Escherichia coli DH5 alpha bearing cloned phoN or the related phoC acquired metal-accumulating ability, which was compared with that of the Citrobacter sp. with respect to removal of uranyl ion (UO2(2+)) from dilute aqueous flows and its deposition in the form of polycrystalline hydrogen uranyl phosphate (HUO2PO4). Subsequently, HUO2PO4-laden cells removed Ni2+ from dilute aqueous flows via intercalation of Ni2+ into the HUO2PO4 lattice. Despite comparable acid phosphatase activity in all three strains, the E. coli DH5 alpha (phoN) construct was superior to Citrobacter N14 in both uranyl and nickel accumulation, while the E. coli DH5 alpha (phoC) construct was greatly inferior in both respects. Expression of phosphatase activity alone is not the only factor that permits efficient and prolonged metal phosphate accumulation, and the data highlight possible differences in the PhoN and PhoC phosphatases, which are otherwise considered to be related in many respects.
Adhesion of water-borne particulates on freshwater biota.	The retention of suspended particles transported by river flow on surfaces of freshwater plants is a potentially important process in the contamination of aquatic biota. Field experiments have been performed to test the role of benthic algae (periphyton) in trapping inorganic suspended solids transported by the river water and to discriminate between the caesium content of periphyton caused by the adherence of inorganic solids and by the active uptake inside the organisms. The contribution of caesium of suspended solids adhering to biotic surfaces was estimated by determining the scandium content (scandium method). The scandium method was used because this element is geologically ubiquitous in soils and it is not taken up actively by plants and other organisms. The mass of suspended particles retained on the surfaces of microorganisms growing on submerged substrates were determined by comparing the scandium content of suspended material with that in algal communities. Neutron activation analysis was used as the analytical method for determination for both scandium, and caesium. The results indicate that the suspended particle fraction can contribute up to 80% of the caesium contamination of periphyton samples. Active caesium uptake and accumulation by aquatic biota represents the remaining 20% of the total caesium contamination.
Anaerobic dechlorination of perchloroethene in an extractive membrane bioreactor.	An extractive membrane bioreactor (EMB) is described that used an undefined anaerobic culture to dechlorinate tetrachloroethene (C2Cl4) reductively in a synthetic wastewater. Comparable reactors described in the literature use set-ups where the bacteria are in direct contact with the wastewater, and thus would require the addition of significant quantities of nutrients to the wastewater stream in practical application. In the EMB, a silicone rubber membrane separates the microbial culture from the wastewater stream, so that addition of nutrients can be minimised. The EMB was operated continuously for 48 days and dechlorinated 359 micromol C2Cl4 (1 biomedium -1 day -1) on average. Lactate was fed as an electron donor and C2Cl4 dechlorination was verified by chloride measurements. Particular attention was paid to the reduction of transmembrane C2Cl4 flux caused by a membrane-attached biofilm. Following a start-up period, the reactor operation was stable and remained largely unaffected by biofilm thickness and oxygen contamination from the wastewater.
