Cuticular hydrocarbons of the sunflower beetle, Zygogramma exclamationis.	Hydrocarbons were the major lipid class on the cuticular surface of adults, nymphs, and eggs of the sunflower beetle, Zygogramma exclamationis, characterized by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Minor amounts of wax ester from 40 to 48 carbon atoms in size were only detected in larvae. The hydrocarbons ranged in size from 23 carbons (tricosene) to 56 carbons (trimethyltripentacontane) and were largely methylalkanes. The major components from females were 13,17,21-trimethylnonatriacontane (19%) and from larvae was n-nonacosane (17%). Males had 11,15- and 9,15-dimethylheptacosane (11%) and 13,17,21-trimethylnonatriacontane (11%) as the major components. In a sample of eggs, 13,17,21-nonatriacontane (16%) was the major component which was approximately 3 to 4-fold greater than the next most abundant hydrocarbons, dimethylheptacosanes, 2-methyloctacosane, methylnonacosanes, dimethyl- and trimethylheptatriacontanes and dimethylnonatriacontanes.
Raman spectroscopic study of spatial distribution of propolis in comb of Apis mellifera carnica (Pollm.).	Micro-Raman spectroscopy and Raman mapping are applied to investigate the spatial distribution and chemical composition of wax and propolis in the comb of Apis mellifera carnica (Pollm). A thick layer of propolis at the rim of some cells is identified by Raman spectroscopy. Raman mapping is applied to resolve the distribution of propolis and wax on a micron scale. Both components are connected at the rim of the cell with a mixture of wax and propolis. A layer of almost pure propolis is found on top of the mixture. It appears that even in the mixture, where both components come into close contact, the propolis and the wax remain separated and keep their chemical identity.
Production of a polyunsaturated isoprenoid wax ester during aerobic metabolism of squalene by Marinobacter squalenivorans sp. nov.	This paper describes the production of 5,9,13-trimethyltetradeca-4E,8E,12-trienyl-5,9,13-trimethyltetradeca-4E,8E,12-trienoate during the aerobic degradation of squalene by a Marinobacter strain, 2Asq64, isolated from the marine environment. A pathway involving initial cleavage of the C(10)-C(11) or C(14)-C(15) double bonds of the squalene molecule is proposed to explain the formation of this polyunsaturated isoprenoid wax ester. The isoprenoid wax ester content reached 1.1% of the degraded squalene at the mid-exponential growth phase and then decreased during the stationary phase. The wax ester content increased by approximately threefold in N-limited cultures, in which the ammonium concentration corresponds to conditions often found in marine sediments. This suggests that the bacterial formation of isoprenoid wax esters might be favored in such environments. The bacterial strain is then characterized as a member of a new species, for which we propose the name Marinobacter squalenivorans sp. nov.
Long-chain (C19-C29) 1-chloro-n-alkanes in leaf waxes of halophytes of the Chenopodiaceae.	The hydrocarbon fraction of leaf waxes of three halophytes of the Chenopodiaceae common to Mediterranean salt marshes (Suaeda vera, Sarcocornia fruticosa and Halimione portulacoides) revealed the presence of a minor series of odd and even chains 1-chloro-n-alkanes ranging from C(19) to C(29). The identification of these new chlorinated plant constituents was based on a combination of mass spectrometry data with selective chlorine detection (CPG-AED) and was confirmed by comparison with authentic standards. The qualitative and quantitative distributions of these 1-chloro-n-alkanes varied inter-specifically. Homologues with an odd carbon-chain were predominant in all species but maximised at C(25) and C(27) in S. vera and S. fruticosa, and at C(27) and C(29) in H. portulacoides. Remarkably, 1-chloro-nonacosane was an abundant homologue only in this latter species. Leaves of S. vera contained 4 to 7 times more of total chloroalkanes than leaves of the other two species. These compounds accounted for 10, 4 and 1% of the hydrocarbon fraction of leaf waxes of S. vera, S. fruticosa and H. portulacoides, respectively. Attempts to link the occurrence of these chloroalkanes with other classes of leaf waxes (n-alkenes, n-aldehydes and n-alcohols) did not allowed a clear precursor-product relationship to be established. The biological functions as well as the mode of synthesis of alkylchlorides in (halophyte) plants remain unknown but undoubtedly deserve further attention.
Paraffin-wax-coated plates as matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization sample support for high-throughput identification of proteins by peptide mass fingerprinting.	We compared trysin-digested protein samples desalted by ZipTip(C18) reverse-phase microcolumns with on-plate washing of peptides deposited either on paraffin-coated plates (PCP), Teflon-based AnchorChip plates, or stainless steel plates, before analysis by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS). Trypsinized bovine serum albumin and ovalbumin and 16 protein spots extracted from silver-stained two-dimensional gels of murine C(2)C(12) myoblasts or human leukocytes, prepared by the above two methods, were subjected to MALDI on PCP, AnchorChip plates, or uncoated stainless steel plates. Although most peptide mass peaks were identical regardless of the method of desalting and concentrating of protein samples, samples washed and concentrated by the PCP-based method had peptide peaks that were not seen in the samples prepared using the ZipTip(C18) columns. The mass spectra of peptides desalted and washed on uncoated stainless steel MALDI plates were consistently inferior due to loss of peptides. Some peptides of large molecular masses were apparently lost from samples desalted by ZipTip(C18) microcolumns, thus diminishing the quality of the fingerprint needed for protein identification. We demonstrate that the method of washing of protein samples on paraffin-coated plates provides an easy, reproducible, inexpensive, and high-throughput alternative to ZipTip(C18)-based purification of protein prior to MALDI-TOF-MS analysis.
Synthesis of novel lipids in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by heterologous expression of an unspecific bacterial acyltransferase.	The bifunctional wax ester synthase/acyl-coenzyme A:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (WS/DGAT) is the key enzyme in storage lipid accumulation in the gram-negative bacterium Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ADP1, mediating wax ester, and to a lesser extent, triacylglycerol (TAG) biosynthesis. Saccharomyces cerevisiae accumulates TAGs and steryl esters as storage lipids. Four genes encoding a DGAT (Dga1p), a phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (Lro1p) and two acyl-coenzyme A:sterol acyltransferases (ASATs) (Are1p and Are2p) are involved in the final esterification steps in TAG and steryl ester biosynthesis in this yeast. In the quadruple mutant strain S. cerevisiae H1246, the disruption of DGA1, LRO1, ARE1, and ARE2 leads to an inability to synthesize storage lipids. Heterologous expression of WS/DGAT from A. calcoaceticus ADP1 in S. cerevisiae H1246 restored TAG but not steryl ester biosynthesis, although high levels of ASAT activity could be demonstrated for WS/DGAT expressed in Escherichia coli XL1-Blue in radiometric in vitro assays with cholesterol and ergosterol as substrates. In addition to TAG synthesis, heterologous expression of WS/DGAT in S. cerevisiae H1246 resulted also in the accumulation of fatty acid ethyl esters as well as fatty acid isoamyl esters. In vitro studies confirmed that WS/DGAT is capable of utilizing a broad range of alcohols as substrates comprising long-chain fatty alcohols like hexadecanol as well as short-chain alcohols like ethanol or isoamyl alcohol. This study demonstrated the highly unspecific acyltransferase activity of WS/DGAT from A. calcoaceticus ADP1, indicating the broad biocatalytic potential of this enzyme for biotechnological production of a large variety of lipids in vivo in prokaryotic as well as eukaryotic expression hosts.
Occurrence of wax esters and 1-O-alkyl-2,3-diacylglycerols in goat epididymal sperm plasma membrane.	Two unusual lipid classes were detected by thin-layer chromatography in the neutral lipids derived from goat cauda-epididymal sperm plasma membrane. The lipids were identified as wax esters and 1-O-alkyl-2,3-diacylglycerols based on chromatographic properties, identity of their hydrolysis products, and infrared/1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectral evidence. The membrane contained ca. 3 and 5 micrograms/mg protein of wax esters and alkyldiacylglycerols, respectively. The relative proportions of wax esters and alkyldiacylglycerols in the total neutral lipids were 1.5% and 2.4%, respectively. The lipids contained fatty acids with chain lengths of C14 to C22. The major fatty acids of the wax esters were 14:0, 16:0, 16:1 omega 7, 18:0 and 18:1 omega 9. The fatty acids in alkyldiacylglycerol were 16:0, 18:0, 22:5 omega 3 and 22:6 omega 3. Alkyldiacylglycerol was particularly rich in docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 omega 3) representing 30% of the total fatty acids. The alcohols of wax ester were all saturated with C20-C29 carbon chains. The deacylated products derived from alkyldiacylglycerols were identified as hexadecyl, octadecyl and octadec-9'-enyl glycerol ethers.
The effects of stress on plant cuticular waxes.	Plants are subject to a wide range of abiotic stresses, and their cuticular wax layer provides a protective barrier, which consists predominantly of long-chain hydrocarbon compounds, including alkanes, primary alcohols, aldehydes, secondary alcohols, ketones, esters and other derived compounds. This article discusses current knowledge relating to the effects of stress on cuticular waxes and the ways in which the wax provides protection against the deleterious effects of light, temperature, osmotic stress, physical damage, altitude and pollution. Topics covered here include biosynthesis, morphology, composition and function of cuticular waxes in relation to the effects of stress, and some recent findings concerning the effects of stress on regulation of wax biosynthesis are described.
In vitro erythemal UV-A protection factors of inorganic sunscreens distributed in aqueous media using carnauba wax-decyl oleate nanoparticles.	This paper describes the in vitro photoprotection in the UV-A range, i.e. 320-400 nm obtained by the use of carnauba wax-decyl oleate nanoparticles either as encapsulation systems or as accompanying vehicles for inorganic sunscreens such as barium sulfate, strontium carbonate and titanium dioxide. Lipid-free inorganic sunscreen nanosuspensions, inorganic sunscreen-free wax-oil nanoparticle suspensions and wax-oil nanoparticle suspensions containing inorganic sunscreens dispersed either in their oil phase or their aqueous phase were prepared by high pressure homogenization. The in vitro erythemal UV-A protection factors (EUV-A PFs) of the nanosuspensions were calculated by means of a sun protection analyzer. EUV-A PFs being no higher than 4 were obtained by the encapsulation of barium sulfate and strontium carbonate, meanwhile by the distribution of titanium dioxide in presence of wax-oil nanoparticles, the EUV-A PFs varied between 2 and 19. The increase in the EUV-A PFs of the titanium dioxide obtained by the use of wax-oil nanoparticles demonstrated a better performance of the sun protection properties of this pigment in the UV-A region.
Chemical composition of epicuticular wax crystals on the slippery zone in pitchers of five Nepenthes species and hybrids.	Plants of the carnivorous genus Nepenthes efficiently trap insects in leaf pitchers, mostly employing epicuticular wax crystals on the pitcher walls to make them slippery for the prey. In the present study, the compositions and micromorphologies of the wax crystals of five Nepenthes species and hybrids were analysed in order to test whether the chemical principles underlying this ecological function are widespread within the genus. Three wax layers could be distinguished within the Nepenthes pitcher cuticles: (1) the outermost part of the crystals forming the platelets visible in standard scanning electron microscopy, (2) the bottom portion of the epicuticular wax crystals, and (3) an intracuticular wax layer. The composition of the intracuticular wax differed significantly from that of the neighbouring epicuticular layer. The compositions of corresponding wax mixtures from all five Nepenthes species and hybrids were very similar, with almost equal amounts of very long chain aldehydes and primary alcohols. While triacontanal (C(30) aldehyde) was prevailing in the epicuticular crystals of Nepenthes albomarginata and Nepenthes x intermedia, Nepenthes x superba and Nepenthes x henriana were found to have especially high percentages of dotriacontanal (C(32) aldehyde). Nepenthes "khasiana" had an intermediate aldehyde composition with almost equal amounts of both chain lengths.
Wax removal for accelerated cotton scouring with alkaline pectinase.	A rational approach has been applied to design a new environmentally acceptable and industrially viable enzymatic scouring process. Owing to the substrate specificity, the selection of enzymes depends on the structure and composition of the substrate, i.e. cotton fibre. The structure and composition of the outer layers of cotton fibre has been established on the basis of thorough literature study, which identifies wax and pectin removal to be the key steps for successful scouring process. Three main issues are discussed here, i.e. benchmarking of the existing alkaline scouring process, an evaluation of several selected acidic and alkaline pectinases for scouring, and the effect of wax removal treatment on pectinase performance. It has been found that the pectinolytic capability of alkaline pectinases on cotton pectin is nearly 75% higher than that of acidic pectinases. It is concluded that an efficient wax removal prior to pectinase treatment indeed results in improved performance in terms of hydrophilicity and pectin removal. To evaluate the hydrophilicity, the structural contact angle (theta) was measured using an auto-porosimeter.
Composition of the cuticle of developing sweet cherry fruit.	The composition of wax and cutin from developing sweet cherry (Prunus avium) fruit was studied by GC-MS between 22 and 85 days after full bloom (DAFB). In this and our previous study, fruit mass and surface area increased in a sigmoidal pattern with time, but mass of the cuticular membrane (CM) per unit fruit surface area decreased. On a whole fruit basis, mass of CM increased up to 36 DAFB and remained constant thereafter. At maturity, triterpenes, alkanes and alcohols accounted for 75.6%, 19.1% and 1.2% of total wax, respectively. The most abundant constituents were the triterpenes ursolic (60.0%) and oleanolic acid (7.5%), the alkanes nonacosane (13.0%) and heptacosane (3.0%), and the secondary alcohol nonacosan-10-ol (1.1%). In developing fruit triterpenes per unit area decreased, but alkanes and alcohols remained essentially constant. The cutin fraction of mature fruit consisted of mostly C16 (69.5%) and, to a lower extent, C18 monomers (19.4%) comprising alkanoic, omega-hydroxyacids, alpha,omega-dicarboxylic and midchain hydroxylated acids. The most abundant constituents were 9(10),16-dihydroxy-hexadecanoic acid (53.6%) and 9,10,18-trihydroxy-octadecanoic acid (7.8%). Amounts of C16 and C18 monomers per unit area decreased in developing fruit, but remained approximately constant on a whole fruit basis. Within both classes of monomers, opposing changes occurred. Amounts of hexadecandioic, 16-hydroxy-hexadecanoic, 9(10)-hydroxy-hexadecane-1,16-dioic and 9,10-epoxy-octadecane-1,18-dioic acids increased, but 9,10,18-trihydroxy-octadecanoic and 9,10,18-trihydroxy-octadecenoic acids decreased. There were no qualitative and minor quantitative differences in wax and cutin composition between cultivars at maturity. Our data indicate that deposition of some constituents of wax and cutin ceased during early fruit development.
Wax components of larval cocoon silk of the hornet Vespa analis Fabricius.	Wax, 85% of which consists of orthorhombic crystals, has been found in the cocoon of the hornet Vespa analis Fabricius by means of high-resolution (13)C solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). GC-MS analysis revealed the major components of the wax in the cocoon were linear alkenes and alkanes with a total of 23 or 34 carbon atoms. At 40.7 degrees C a DSC absorption peak and a (13)C NMR chemical shift change were observed and interpreted as the result of a crystal transition from the orthorhombic to rotator phase of the wax molecules. At 55.5 degrees C melting of the wax was observed. The amount of crystalline wax deposition varied with the part of the cocoon-crystalline wax was concentrated in the silk sleeve lining the inner wall of each comb cell but there was very little in the silk cap projecting from the end of each cell. Because the wax components of the larval cocoon were almost identical to those of the larval cuticle, despite a slight difference in the profiles, they might have come from the larval cuticle via direct body contact with the cocoon.
Retention and rainfastness of mancozeb as affected by physicochemical characteristics of adaxial apple leaf surface after enhanced UV-B radiation.	It is not clear so far whether alteration of leaf micromorphology and surface wax chemistry due to the impact of environmental factors, such as UV-B radiation, affects retention and rainfastness of applied pesticide solutions. In this study; UV-B treated and untreated adaxial leaf surfaces of apple seedlings (Malus domestica Borkh.) were characterized in terms of chemical composition, micromorphological fine structure, hydrophobicity, and wettability. Furthermore, the retention and rainfastness of applied fungicide mancozeb were studied. The samples were examined 0, 24 and 48 h after ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation (0.022 kW m(-2) for 150 min) The total wax mass, recovered from the adaxial leaf surface, amounted from 0.38 microg cm(-2) (control) up to 0.49 microg cm(-2) (24 h). Chemical composition of surface wax altered, whereas the contact angle of applied water droplets on leaf surface of UV-B treated plants did not change significantly compared to the control. The alteration of surface wax quantity and quality significantly affected retention of a.i.; it increased at a sampling time of 24 h after UV-B irradiation, whereas rainfastness of the fungicide spray solution was not significantly influenced.
Composition of alkyl esters in the cuticular wax on inflorescence stems of Arabidopsis thaliana cer mutants.	Wax biosynthetic pathways proceed via the elongation of 16:0 acyl-CoA to very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA), and by further modifications that include reduction to primary alcohols and formation of alkyl esters. We have analyzed the alkyl esters in the stem wax of ten cer mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana together with the corresponding wild types. Alkyl esters with chain lengths between C(38) and C(52) were identified, and the levels of esters ranged from 0.15 microg cm(-2) in Wassilewskija (WS) to 1.20 microg cm(-2) in cer2. Esters with even numbers of carbons prevailed, with C(42), C(44) and C(46) favoured in the wild types, a predominance of C(42) in cer2 and cer6 mutants, and a relative shift towards C(46) in cer3 and cer23 mutants. The esters of all mutants and wild types were dominated by 16:0 acyl moieties, whereas the chain lengths of esterified alcohols were between C(20) and C(32). The alkyl chain-length distributions of the wild-type esters had a maximum for C(28) alcohol, similar to the free alcohols accompanying them in the wax mixtures. The esterified alcohols of cer2, cer6 and cer9 had largely increased levels of C(26) alcohol, closely matching the patterns of the corresponding free alcohols and, therefore, differing drastically from the corresponding wild type. In contrast, cer1, cer3, cer10, cer13 and cer22 showed ester alcohol patterns with increased levels of C(30), only partially following the shift in chain lengths of the free alcohols in stem wax. These results provide information on the composition of substrate pools and/or the specificity of the ester synthase involved in wax ester formation. We conclude that alcohol levels at the site of biosynthesis are mainly limiting the ester formation in the Arabidopsis wild-type epidermis.
Small angle scatter imaging from wide beam diffraction patterns.	In this paper we report on the extension of the technique of mapping small angle x-ray scatter (SAXS) across a soft material specimen several millimetres square. In the conventional SAXS mapping technique a pencil beam of x-rays is raster scanned over the specimen with the scatter pattern recorded from each point in the raster. In our technique a wide, parallel beam is used, speeding up the data collection time considerably. An image processing algorithm is used to separate the scatter pattern features from individual points along the line of the beam. To test the efficacy of the technique a phantom was constructed using gelatin and rat tail tendon collagen. Collagen fibres in the phantom were arranged in quarters horizontally, diagonally and vertically leaving one quarter with just gelatin. The phantom was used to collect both raster scanned sets of SAXS patterns spaced at 0.25 mm horizontally and vertically and also a wide beam data set. The width of the beam in this case was approximately 7 mm. Using the third-order diffraction of rat tail tendon intensity data were gathered from each SAXS pattern and used to construct a map. Data from the raster scan image and that from the wide beam are compared. Finally using a phantom made from dehydrated rat tail tendon and paraffin wax a tomographic slice constructed using data from SAXS patterns is shown.
Plant surface wax affects parasitoid's response to host footprints.	The plant surface is the substrate upon which herbivorous insects and natural enemies meet and thus represents the stage for interactions between the three trophic levels. Plant surfaces are covered by an epicuticular wax layer which is highly variable depending on species, cultivar or plant part. Differences in wax chemistry may modulate ecological interactions. We explored whether caterpillars of Spodoptera frugiperda, when walking over a plant surface, leave a chemical trail (kairomones) that can be detected by the parasitoid Cotesia marginiventris. Chemistry and micromorphology of cuticular waxes of two barley eceriferum wax mutants (cer-za.126, cer-yp.949) and wild-type cv. Bonus (wt) were assessed. The plants were then used to investigate potential surface effects on the detectability of caterpillar kairomones. Here we provide evidence that C. marginiventris responds to chemical footprints of its host. Parasitoids were able to detect the kairomone on wild-type plants and on both cer mutants but the response to cer-yp.949 (reduced wax, high aldehyde fraction) was less pronounced. Experiments with caterpillar-treated wt and mutant leaves offered simultaneously, confirmed this observation: no difference in wasp response was found when wt was tested against cer-za.126 (reduced wax, wt-like chemical composition) but wt was significantly more attractive than cer-yp.949. This demonstrates for the first time that the wax layer can modulate the detectability of host kairomones.
The reduction of wax precipitation in waxy crude oils by Pseudomonas species.	Crude oil with different concentrations was subjected to Pseudomonas species at 37 degrees C and various incubation periods. The results showed that Pseudomonas species grew faster at 1% (v/v) concentration of crude oil and exhibited high biodegradation ability within 1 week. On measuring the emulsification activity and emulsion stability during different stages of growth, in various immiscible hydrocarbons, it appeared that the species was able to produce a stable emulsion with a maximum at the end of stationary phase of growth. The gas chromatography analysis of the saturated hydrocarbons of crude oil showed that, an increase in concentration of iso-alkanes in the range of C15-C20, and a bioconversion of heavy iso-alkanes in the range of C21-C22+. Chemical analysis of crude oil by liquid chromatographic technique before and after growth showed that, the saturated alkanes were more degradable than aromatic and asphaltenic compounds. Treatment by Pseudomonas species may possibly be an effective method for the biodegradation of heavy paraffinic hydrocarbon leading to an enhancement in crude oil properties.
Effect of plasticizer type and amount on hydroxypropyl methylcellulose-beeswax edible film properties and postharvest quality of coated plums (cv. Angeleno).	The effect of the composition of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC)-beeswax (BW) edible coatings on stand-alone film properties and on postharvest quality of coated 'Angeleno' plums was studied. Glycerol (G) and mannitol (M) were tested as plasticizers at two different plasticizer/HPMC ratios (100:1 and 300:1 molar basis). BW content was 20 or 40% (dry basis). An increase in G content increased film flexibility and vapor permeability (WVP), whereas an increase in M content enhanced film brittleness without affecting WVP. An increase in BW content reduced film flexibility and reduced WVP of only G-plasticized films. Coatings reduced plum softening and bleeding, but were not effective in reducing plum weight loss. At low plasticizer content, coatings reduced texture loss effectively. Low BW also lowered plum bleeding. Plasticizer type affected only ethanol and acetaldehyde contents without affecting the remaining quality parameters. Therefore, HPMC-BW coatings have the potential to extend the shelf life of plums. However, this effect depends on coating composition. Differences between coating and film performance indicate that data from stand-alone films may be used as a preliminary screening, but coating performance should be analyzed on coated fruit.
A philosophy for restoring virgin caries.	This paper demonstrates and discusses the clinical relevance for the use of direct gold, especially in restoring virgin caries in the modern restorative dental practice. In addition, this article is intented to highlight the advantages for oral health of placing restorative materials with the highest probability of long-term success. Also, this paper demonstrates the use of the latest formula of direct gold (E-Z Gold), developed by Dr Lloyd Baum of Loma Linda, CA, USA, and how this new product has made it practical to include direct gold restorations as an integral part of an active restorative practice.
Improved communication during treatment planning using light-curing hybrid wax for esthetic try-in restorations.	The chance for a successful restorative outcome is improved when the clinician, the laboratory technician, and the patient agree on the design and appearance of the planned dental prosthesis as early as possible. A try-in of a planned dental restoration in the patient's mouth provides the parties involved in treatment planning with the ability to determine treatment goals together. The following article describes the use of a novel light-curing hybrid wax, a resin-like material that allows natural-looking, fracture-proof esthetic try-in restorations. Corrections can be made chairside by adding or removing material. The material is suitable for all indications involving fixed or removable dentures. Moreover, as the material can be burned without producing residues, it can be used directly in other applications such as pressable ceramics, ceramics pressed to metal, and casting techniques. A clinical case demonstrating the use of the hybrid wax is also presented.
Evaluation of a drug with wax-like properties as a melt binder.	The study investigates ibuprofen with wax-like properties as a multifunctional agent (as an active component and as a melt binder). Binding efficiency was compared with granules prepared by wet granulation using polyvinylpyrollidone (PVP K-30) as a binder for micromeritic, physical and mechanical properties such as angle of repose, particle size distribution Carr's index, Hausner's ratio, crushing strength, percentage fines, Heckel plot study and tensile strength. To check the binder distribution during melt granulation, the content uniformity was determined. To check changes in the physical state of ibuprofen, XRPD, DSC and FTIR studies were carried out. The present study underlines the fact that ibuprofen may be adopted as a binder in ibuprofen formulations using the melt granulation technique.
An experimental study of vertical deviations induced by different interocclusal recording materials.	This study was designed to determine vertical deviations in mounting casts on an articulator as affected by the recording material. Five different recording materials were tested after storage of the records for 30 minutes, 6 hours, and 24 hours. Two measuring systems were used to register simultaneously the vertical errors at the occlusal plane and at the condyle of an articulator. The results indicated that the measurements made at the condyle cannot detect the vertical deviations induced at the occlusal surfaces. None of the materials tested gave reliable results. Advantages, disadvantages, and indications of the different materials were discussed.
Evaluating threats to an endangered species by proxy: air pollution as threat to the blue swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea) in South Africa.	The blue swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea) is one of the most threatened bird species in southern Africa. Among terrestrial birds, its plumage is known to be the most water repellent, an adaptation to foraging on the wing in dense fog. Despite this unique adaptation, the nesting success of the blue swallow at the Blue Swallow Natural Heritage Site (BSNHS) is lower during years with high incidence of fog. As the phenomenon is not observed at other nesting sites, we hypothesized that this is due to changes in the air chemistry at the BSNHS. In the immediate proximity of the BSNHS, plantations of exotic trees (e.g., pines and eucalypts), rich in volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are dominant features. In addition, air pollution from the Johannesburg area is transported with the surface winds and mix with VOCs released from exotic trees. Together with the high humidity and high elevation, these conditions may result in the formation of sulphonates. Sulphonates are strong detergents, and the presence of these in the fog could lead to decreased water repellence of the plumage. This study was performed in order to determine the occurrence and distribution of sulphonates in the BSNHS and to compare these with sulphonates formed in other locations in South Africa. Because the blue swallow is endangered, pine needles were used as proxy to detect formation of sulphonates.
Repellency of a wax-based catnip-oil formulation against stable flies.	Stable flies, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), are one of the most serious livestock pests, which cause significant economic loss in the cattle industry. Current practices for managing stable flies are limited to costly sanitation techniques and unsustainable insecticide applications. The present study reports the initial efforts using catnip essential oil as a spatial repellent and the results of field trials using a wax-based formulation to repel stable flies in the cattle feedlot. Electroantennograms showed that catnip oil and its ingredient compounds elicit significant antennal responses from both sexes of stable flies. Catnip oil and ZE- and EZ-nepetalactone showed repellent activity in a single cage olfactormeter study. No behavioral activity was observed from another ingredient compound, caryophyllene. A laboratory dispersal bioassay also showed that stable flies avoided areas treated with catnip oil. Using a solid phase microextraction (SPME) method, the atmospheric concentration of catnip active ingredient compounds (nepetalactones) absorbed by SPME fiber in treated areas was detected at 4 times higher than those in control areas. Application of wax-based catnip pellets in cattle feedlots resulted in >99% repellency of stable flies in treated areas, compared with that in nontreated areas. However, the repellent efficacy of the formulation only lasted 3 h. This is the first study demonstrating the potential application of a plant-based repellent formulation that may be used as an alternative method against stable flies. 
Micromorphology of epicuticular waxes and epistomatal chambers of pine species by electron microscopy and white light scanning interferometry.	High-resolution imaging and quantitative surface analysis of epicuticular waxes and epistomatal chambers of pine species were performed by field emission scanning electron microscopy and white light scanning interferometry. Both juvenile and adult needles were collected from the two-year-old seedlings of Pinus rigida and Pinus densiflora and subjected to surface observations. Epicuticular wax structures developed on the cuticle layer as well as in the epistomatal chambers and appeared to occlude the cavities in the two pine species. The stomata of P. densiflora were characterized by more distinctly raised rings around openings than P. rigida. The most common epicuticular wax structures of the two pine species included tubules with terminal openings and coiled rodlets. Wax platelets were deposited on epistomatal chambers. Either rodlets or tubules seemed to be longer and thicker in P. rigida than those in P. densiflora. White light scanning interferometry revealed quantitative surface profiles, demonstrating more ridged (ca. 4 μm high) stomatal apertures and nearly twofold deeper (ca. 20 μm deep) epistomatal chambers of P. densiflora than those of P. rigida. These results suggest that white light scanning interferometry can be applied to unravel the quantitative surface features of epicuticular sculptures on plant leaves.
The positional sterile (ps) mutation affects cuticular transpiration and wax biosynthesis of tomato fruits.	Cuticular waxes are known to play a pivotal role in limiting transpirational water loss across primary plant surfaces. The astomatous tomato fruit is an ideal model system that permits the functional characterization of intact cuticular membranes and therefore allows direct correlation of their permeance for water with their qualitative and quantitative composition. The recessive positional sterile (ps) mutation, which occurred spontaneously in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), is characterized by floral organ fusion and positional sterility. Because of a striking phenotypical similarity with the lecer6 wax mutant of tomato, which is defective in very-long-chain fatty acid elongation, ps mutant fruits were analyzed for their cuticular wax and cutin composition. We also examined their cuticular permeance for water following the developmental course of fruit ripening. Wild type and ps mutant fruits showed considerable differences in their cuticular permeance for water, while exhibiting similar quantitative wax accumulation. The ps mutant fruits showed a five- to eightfold increase in water loss per unit time and surface area when compared to the corresponding wild type fruits. The cuticular waxes of ps mutant fruits were characterized by an almost complete absence of n-alkanes and aldehydes, with a concomitant increase in triterpenoids and sterol derivatives. We also noted the occurrence of alkyl esters not present in the wild type. Quantitative and qualitative cutin monomer composition remained largely unaffected. The significant differences in the cuticular wax composition of ps mutant fruits induced a distinct increase of cuticular water permeance. The fruit wax compositional phenotype indicates the ps mutation is responsible for effectively blocking the decarbonylation pathway of wax biosynthesis in epidermal cells of tomato fruits.
Effect of pre-processing methods on bond strength between acrylic resin teeth and acrylic denture base resin.	This study evaluated the effects of various pre-processing methods on the bond strength between resin and denture teeth.
Immobilized Rhizopus oryzae lipase catalyzed synthesis of palm stearin and cetyl alcohol wax esters: optimization by response surface methodology.	Waxes are esters of long-chain fatty acids and long-chain alcohols. Their principal natural sources are animals (sperm whale oil) and vegetables (jojoba) which are expensive and not easily available. Wax esters synthesized by enzymatic transesterification, using palm stearin as raw material, can be considered as an alternative to natural ones.
Microencapsulation of flavors in carnauba wax.	The subject of this study is the development of flavor wax formulations aimed for food and feed products. The melt dispersion technique was applied for the encapsulation of ethyl vanillin in wax microcapsules. The surface morphology of microparticles was investigated using scanning electron microscope (SEM), while the loading content was determined by HPLC measurements. This study shows that the decomposition process under heating proceeds in several steps: vanilla evaporation occurs at around 200 °C, while matrix degradation starts at 250 °C and progresses with maxima at around 360, 440 and 520 °C. The results indicate that carnauba wax is an attractive material for use as a matrix for encapsulation of flavours in order to improve their functionality and stability in products.
Evaluation and quantitation of intact wax esters of human meibum by gas-liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry.	Wax esters (WE) of human meibum are one of the largest group of meibomian lipids. Their complete characterization on the level of individual intact lipid species has not been completed yet. We obtained detailed structural information on previously uncharacterized meibomian WE.
Preparation and evaluation of granules with pH-dependent release by melt granulation.	This study had two objectives: (1) to prepare, by melt granulation in a high-shear mixer, granules containing acetaminophen (APAP) as a model drug and aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer E (AMCE) as a pH-sensitive polymer that readily dissolves at pH values lower than 5, and (2) to investigate the effects of AMCE loading (5-15%) on granule properties and the in vitro release profile of drug from the granules. Compared with polymer-free granules, the granules containing 5% and 10% AMCE were found to have higher median diameters and wider particle size distributions. For the formulation containing 15% AMCE, on the other hand, the diameters and distribution were similar to those for polymer-free granules. From compression testing, load-displacement curves revealed that AMCE enhanced particle strength at ambient temperature and induced plastic strain, while suppressing fragmentation of the granules. In addition, from dissolution testing using media with pH 4.0 and pH 6.5, granules containing AMCE, except 15% AMCE loading, exhibited drug release with significant pH dependence. When the pH 4.0 and pH 6.5 dissolution profiles were further compared by calculating the difference factor (f(1)), the 5% AMCE granules showed the strongest pH dependence of drug release among all formulations in this study. Large cracks and breakage were observed on the surface of 10% AMCE granules after they were used in dissolution testing. The obtained results are attributed to the plastic strain properties of AMCE above its glass transition temperature, and to the irregular distribution of AMCE within granules. Hence, this study has demonstrated for the first time that the combination of melt granulation and AMCE incorporation enables the formulation of novel functional granules that exhibit pH-dependent release of the active ingredient.
Complete arch implant impression technique.	When making a definitive impression for an arch containing multiple implants, there are many reported techniques for splinting impression copings. This article introduces a splint technique that uses the shim method, which has been demonstrated to reduce laboratory and patient chair time, the number of impression copings and laboratory analogs needed, and the ultimate cost.
Biomechanical approach to human bitemark reconstruction.	This paper investigates the changes in upper and lower dental bite records that occur when the anterior teeth occlude into a three-dimensional rather than a flat object.
Cerato-populin and cerato-platanin, two non-catalytic proteins from phytopathogenic fungi, interact with hydrophobic inanimate surfaces and leaves.	Based on sequence homology, several fungal Cys-rich secreted proteins have been grouped in the cerato-platanin (CP) family, which comprises at least 40 proteins involved mainly in eliciting defense-related responses. The core member of this family is cerato-platanin, a moderately hydrophobic protein with a double ψ-β barrel fold. CP and the recently identified orthologous cerato-populin (Pop1) are involved in host-fungus interaction, and can be considered non-catalytic fungal PAMPs. CP is more active in inducing defense when in an aggregated conformation than in its native form, but little is known about other CP-orthologous proteins. Here, we cloned, expressed, and purified recombinant Pop1, which was used to characterize the protein aggregates. Our results suggest that the unfolded, self-assembled Pop1 is more active in inducing defense, and that the unfolding process can be induced by interaction with hydrophobic inanimate surfaces such as Teflon, treated mica, and gold sheets. In vivo, we found that both CP and Pop1 interact with the hydrophobic cuticle of leaves. Therefore, we propose that the interaction of these proteins with host cuticle waxes could induce unfolding and consequently trigger their PAMP-like activity. 
New insights into pesticide photoprotection.	Photolysis may be a significant route of pesticide dissipation on crops, leading to an increase of pesticide use. Spraying strong absorbing compounds (photoprotector) along with pesticide is an attractive strategy to prevent the photodegradation phenomenon. The aim of this study is to get a better understanding of the parameters governing the photoprotection efficiency. Experiments were conducted using formulated sulcotrione as a pesticide and a grape wine extract as a photoprotector. These compounds were irradiated using simulated solar light as dried deposits on carnauba wax films or on disks of tobacco leaves and analyzed by ultra performance liquid chromatography ultraviolet (UV), spectroscopy, and microscopy. It is shown that photolysis is faster on leaves than on carnauba wax and that the photoprotection effect of grape wine extract is more efficient on leaves than on wax. Images recorded by microscopy bring evidence that deposits are very different on the two supports both in the absence and in the presence of the photoprotector. The grape wine extract plays a double role; it is antioxidant and UV screen. Photoprotection by the grape wine extract is a complex mixing of UV screen and antioxidant effects. The UV screen effect can be rationalized by considering the rate of light absorption by sulcotrione. Our results demonstrate that the rates of sulcotrione phototransformation are mainly governed by the repartition of the deposit on the solid support. 
A technique to create an interocclusal bite registration using in situ implant healing abutments.	Obtaining an accurate interocclusal record which relates the upper and lower jaws to one another is critical in the laboratory production of dental restorations. This may be particularly challenging when the configuration of missing teeth dictate that such records are dependent on the remaining mucosal tissues for support. This article presents a practical and time saving method of using implant healing abutments, located within an edentulous distal extension space, to serve as vertical stops for an interocclusal record.
Effect of emulsifier type and concentration, aqueous phase volume and wax ratio on physical, material and mechanical properties of water in oil lipsticks.	Water-in-oil emulsions in lipsticks could have the potential to improve moisturizing properties and deliver hydrophilic molecules to the lips. The aims of this work were (i) to investigate the effect of emulsifier type (polymer vs. monomer, and saturated vs. unsaturated chain) and concentration on droplet size and (ii) to investigate the effect of wax ratio (carnauba wax, microcrystalline wax, paraffin wax and performalene) and aqueous phase volume on material properties (Young's modulus, point of fracture, elastic modulus and viscous modulus).
Influence of waxy rice flour substitution for wheat flour on characteristics of batter and freeze-thawed cake.	This study aimed to improve the freeze-thawed cake properties by10-20% waxy rice flour (WRF) substitution for wheat flour (WF). Viscosity of WRF-substituted batters was lower; consequently, trapped air was less uniformly distributed than WF batter. After five freeze-thaw cycles, firmness and enthalpy of melting retrograded amylopectin of WF- and WRF-substituted cakes increased and the matrix surrounding the air pores from SEM images was denser than in fresh-baked cakes. Sensory evaluation showed an increase in firmness and a decrease in firmness acceptability of freeze-thawed cakes. However, freeze-thawed cake with WRF substitution had significantly less firmness, less dense matrix and more acceptability than WF cake. This could have been due to a low amylose content of WRF and the spread of ruptured waxy rice starch granules around swollen wheat starch granules as observed by CLSM. Thus, WRF could be used for WF substitution to improve the firmness in freeze-thawed cake. 
Characterization of internal structure of maize starch without amylose and amylopectin separation.	Normal maize starch was used to characterize the internal structure of starch without separating amylose and amylopectin, and the result was compared with amylose-free waxy maize starch. The clusters in the whole starch were produced by partial hydrolysis using α-amylase of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, and were subsequently treated with β-amylase to remove the linear amylose and to produce β-limit dextrins of clusters from amylopectin. The clusters were further hydrolyzed extensively with α-amylase to produce building blocks. The compositions of clusters in the form of β-limit dextrins and their building blocks were analyzed by gel-permeation chromatography and high-performance anion-exchange chromatography. The results showed that the structures of clusters and building blocks from whole starch of normal and waxy starches were similar. By number, each cluster contained 9-10 chains and 5-6 building blocks. The inter-block chain length in the clusters of whole starch was around six glucosyl residues. This study explored an alternate procedure to characterize the composition of branches in whole starch without separating amylose and amylopectin components. 
Evaluation of the mechanism of gelation of an oleogel based on a triterpene extract from the outer bark of birch.	Oleogels are known for their high physical, chemical, and mechanical stability and good in vivo efficacy, which make them appropriate vehicles for dermal drug delivery and skin care for very dry skin. Modern formulation research focusses on well tolerated and sustainable formulation concepts. This paper deals with an innovative oleogel, which is based on a triterpene dry extract from the outer bark of birch (TE). In this formulation TE does not only act as an excipient but provides interesting pharmacological properties at the same time. The oleogel was formulated using solely Simmondsia Chinensis seed oil (jojoba oil) and TE. Fluorescence microscopy and confocal Raman microscopy showed that suspended TE particles arrange in a three-dimensional gel network. Infrared spectroscopy revealed that the formation of hydrogen bonds between TE particles is responsible for the self-assembly of TE in oil. Moreover, the influence of TE concentration and morphology of the TE particles on the viscoelasticity of the resulting oleogels was analyzed. Gel strength increased with TE concentration and was critical to the specific surface area of the TE particles.
Thymol as an alternative to pesticides: persistence and effects of Apilife Var on the phototactic behavior of the honeybee Apis mellifera.	Thymol is a natural substance increasingly used as an alternative to pesticides in the fight against the Varroa destructor mite. Despite the effectiveness of this phenolic monoterpene against Varroa, few articles have covered the negative or side effects of thymol on bees. In a previous study, we have found an impairment of phototaxis in honeybees following application of sublethal doses of thymol-lower or equal to 100 ng/bee-under laboratory conditions. The present work shows the same behavioral effects on bees from hives treated with Apilife Var®, a veterinary drug containing 74 % thymol, with a decrease in phototactic behavior observed 1 day after treatment. Thus, thymol causes disruption of bee phototactic behavior both under laboratory conditions as well as in beehives. The bee exposure dose in treated hives was quantified using gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS), giving a median value of 4.3 μg per body 24 h after treatment, with 11 ng in the brain. The thymol level in 20 organic waxes from hives treated with Apilife Var® was also measured and showed that it persists in waxes (around 10 mg/kg) 1 year after treatment. Thus, in the light of (1) behavioral data obtained under laboratory conditions and in beehives, (2) the persistence of thymol in waxes, and (3) the high load on bees, it would appear important to study the long-term effects of thymol in beehives.
Determination of n-alkane constituents and their phenological variation in the epicuticular wax of mature leaves of Nyctanthes arbor-tristis L.	The present communication is a first-time report on the analyses of n-alkane profile of epicuticular wax extracted from the mature leaves of Nyctanthes arbor-tristis L. during a calender year. The composition of n-alkanes revealed hentriacontane (n-C31), tritriacontane (n-C33), tetratriacontane (n-C35) and nonacosane (n-C29) as the major constituents with tritriacontane (n-C33) being the dominant constituent. The cumulative percentage of these four odd-numbered alkanes also showed phenological variation being highest during the fruit ripening stage (average value 63.29%) followed by the flowering stage (mean value 60.74%). The values remained moderate on an average of 54.31% for the rest of the year. This study also confirms the xerophytic feature of the plant having higher proportion of longer carbon chain n-alkanes greater than C31 (dominant peaks are of C33 and C35). 
Synthesis and properties of a lacquer wax-based quarternary ammonium gemini surfactant.	Lacquer wax is an important fatty resource obtained from the mesocarp of the berries of Toxicodendron vernicifluum. In order to expand the applications of lacquer wax, we hydrolyzed it after establishing the best conditions for the acid-catalyzed hydrolysis using a Box-Behnken design. Then we synthesized a quarternary ammonium gemini surfactant by a three-step reaction. The surface properties of an aqueous solution of the final product were investigated. The optimum conditions were 9% catalyst, 100 °C of reaction temperature and 14 h of reaction time, while the maximum free fatty acids (FFA)% was 99.67%. From the gas chromatography, the main fatty acids of the lacquer wax were palmitic, oleic and octadecanoic acid. The lacquer wax gemini surfactant was synthesized, and its structure was confirmed by IR and NMR. The experiments showed that the critical micelle concentration (CMC) is 5 × 10⁻⁴ mol·L⁻¹, the surface tension is 33.6 mN·m⁻¹. When the content of surfactant was 0.1%, the separation time of 5 mL water was 10 min.
Characterization, sensorial evaluation and moisturizing efficacy of   nanolipidgel formulations.	Nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC) have been widely studied for cosmetic and dermatological applications due to their favourable properties that include the formation of an occlusive film on the skin surface that reduces the transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and increase in water content in the skin which improves the appearance on healthy human skin and reduces symptoms of some skin disorders like eczema.
Anti-inflammatory activity of D-002: an active product isolated from beeswax.	D-002 is a natural mixture of high molecular weight alcohols isolated and purified from beeswax, which contains triacontanol among its main components. This study was undertaken to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of D-002 administered by the oral route in two animal models commonly used in the pharmacological screening of anti-inflammatory drugs. D-002 administered orally to rats (100 and 200 mg/kg) produced a mild but significant reduction of exudate volume in carrageenan-induced pleuritic inflammation that was accompanied by a marked and significant decrease of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) levels in the exudate. D-002 (25, 50 and 200 mg/kg) also significantly diminished the granuloma weight in the cotton pellet granuloma in rats. In both cases, D-002 was less effective than indomethacin, which was used as an established anti-inflammatory reference drug. On the other hand, D-002 administered from 25-1000 mg/kg did not induce erosions or gastromucosal lesions in rats, which differs from results usually obtained with non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. These results indicate that D-002 is a mild anti-inflammatory agent without any ulcerogenic effect associated. The results suggest that these effects are probably not mediated through an inhibition of cyclooxygenase, but a reduction in LTB4 levels induced by D-002 could explain these results.
