Suicide by cop among female subjects in officer-involved shooting cases.	An analysis of suicide by cop (SBC) among female subjects in a large sample (n = 707) of officer-involved shootings (OIS) is reported. Women represented 3% of the total sample (n = 21) and 5% (n = 12) of the 256 SBC cases. Therefore, 57% of the women (n = 12) were classified as SBC, and 81% of the women (n = 17) behaviorally evidenced some suicidal motivation. The results underscore that when a female subject becomes involved in a situation leading to an OIS, there is a very high likelihood that she is motivated to be intentionally killed. She is almost guaranteed to have a diagnosed mental disorder, has been prescribed psychiatric medications, and is abusing a substance at the time, most likely alcohol. Nevertheless, she also poses a serious risk of injury to both police officers and civilians during the encounter and will possess a firearm half the time. The wish for suicide is often precipitated by serious relationship issues. Comparisons are made to the male subjects in our previous study.
Electronic control device exposure: a review of morbidity and mortality.	The use of electronic control devices has expanded worldwide during the last few years, the most widely used model being the Taser. However, the scientific knowledge about electronic control devices remains limited. We reviewed the medical literature to examine the potential implications of electronic devices in terms of morbidity and mortality, and to identify and evaluate all the existing experimental human studies. A single exposure of an electronic control device on healthy individuals can be assumed to be generally safe, according to 23 prospective human experimental studies and numerous volunteer exposures. In case series, however, electronic control devices could have deleterious effects when used in the field, in particular if persons receive multiple exposures, are intoxicated, show signs of "excited delirium," or present with medical comorbidities. As the use of electronic control devices continues to increase, the controversy about its safety, notably in potentially high-risk individuals, is still a matter of debate. The complications of electronic control device exposure are numerous but often recognizable, usually resulting from barbed dart injuries or from falls. Persons exposed to electronic control devices should therefore be fully examined, and traumatic lesions must be ruled out.
Murder-suicide in the province of Milan, Italy: criminological analysis of cases 1990-2009.	Murder-suicide is a relatively rare event, and familicide is rarer still. However, it is certainly not unknown, and has been described in the scientific literature from both a socio-criminological and pathological-forensic perspective since the last century. In a civilized urban area such as Milan and province, where there is a general reduction in the homicide rate, homicide-suicide occurs almost exclusively within the family, and has specific features that differentiate it from other types of homicide, whether connected with general criminality or organized crime. This article analyses the quantitative and qualitative features of cases of homicide-suicide occurring in Milan and province between 1990 and 2009 (20 years), considering temporal aspects and the development of the events, the weapons used, and the epidemiological and psychopathological features of the perpetrators and their victims.
