Weils' syndrome and concomitant hepatitis B infection.	Leptospirosis is a ubiquitous, spirochetal zoonosis which presents with a broad clinical spectrum. Weil's syndrome, characterised by jaundice, renal failure and bleeding manifestations is the most severe form. A high index of suspicion for the diagnosis is required to institute therapy promptly. We describe a case of serologically confirmed Weil's syndrome with concomitant hepatitis B infection.
Leptospirosis--a cause for concern?	A severe case of Weil's disease is presented. The particular relevance of this condition to the Armed Forces and Service physicians is discussed, together with methods of diagnosis.
A quick method for the diagnosis of leptospirosis]	Seventy-nine sero-samples from patients with leptospirosis were tested by dot-ELISA and microscopical agglutination test (MAT). Results showed that the accordance rate was 96.19%. 20 sero-samples obtained from healthy people, 4 from hepatitis B(HBV) and 4 from epidemic hemorrhage fever (EHF) were negative by dot-ELISA. We believe dot-ELISA is a simple, rapid method which can be used to diagnose those patients with leptospirosis.
A severe case of Weil's disease]	Leptospirosis which is caused by Leptospira species, may present with clinical features that vary from a mild flu-like illness to an acute life-threatening condition. Weil's disease, the most severe form of leptospirosis is characterized by multiorgan involvement including liver, kidney and lungs. In this report a severe Weil's disease was presented. A 43 years old male patient who had a history of swallowing water while swimming in the creek, was admitted to the hospital with the complaints of weakness, cough, bloody sputum, generalized jaundice and dark urine. Acute renal failure, bilateral lung infiltration, hyperbilirubinemia, leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia were detected, and the patient has undergone to hemodialysis. Ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin treatment was applied to the patient after collection of blood, urine and sputum cultures and serum samples for serological tests. None of the cultures yielded pathogenic microorganisms. Microscopic agglutination test (MAT) was applied to two serum samples which were collected with 10 days interval. The first serum sample revealed antibody positivity at 1/200 titer against L. semeranga Patoc I, while the second serum revealed antibody positivity at 1/400 titer against both L. semeranga Patoc I and L. icterohaemorrhagiae Wijnberg. By the administration of antibiotic therapy and early supportive care the patient was cured completely. In conclusion Weil's disease should be taken into consideration in the patients with multiple organ involvements.
Leptospirosis: a globally increasing zoonotic disease.	A 27-year-old previously healthy man was admitted to the intensive care unit with severe jaundice, dyspnoea with haemoptysis, anaemia, thrombocytopenia and acute renal injury. He had no recent history of foreign travel but had been building a shed in his back garden in Cork, Ireland, for the preceding week. The patient's history, clinical observations, haematological and radiological results were all consistent with icteric leptospirosis or Weil's disease. This was confirmed on serological testing. He completed 7 days intravenous ceftriaxone and made a complete recovery. While endemic in tropical climates, leptospirosis incidence is increasing in temperate climates. Recent cases seen in temperate climates can be severe, particularly with pulmonary manifestations. The report of this case serves to increase awareness of this re-emerging potentially fatal infectious disease.
Leptospirosis and Weil's disease in the UK.	The recent high-profile death of a British Olympic rower from leptospirosis has raised awareness to this uncommon but potentially fatal disease. The re-emergence of the disease abroad is well documented in the literature, but less is known about cases in the UK. The increase in participation in water sports, foreign travel and often a combination of the two, has increased the exposure of tourists subsequently returning to the UK from areas of high prevalence. Leptospirosis is a zoonotic infection. The bacteria are shed in the urine of animals to the environment from where humans are infected by incidental hosts. There is a wide spectrum of severity of symptoms, from a self-limiting febrile illness to fatal pulmonary haemorrhage, renal or liver failure. It is thought that cases remain unrecognized every year in the UK, largely due to the mild nature of symptoms and the wide differential for febrile illness and partly due to lack of awareness among clinicians. This review examines the epidemiology of leptospirosis in the UK, over the period 2006-10, the clinical features, diagnostic techniques and treatment.
Leptospirosis contracted from pet rats]	Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonosis with the highest incidence in tropical regions. The reservoir animals, mainly mice and rats, excrete leptospira organisms in their urine asymptomatically. It is transmitted to human hosts either by contact with the infected urine or via contaminated water or soil during the work and recreational activities. The aim of the case reports is to point out to another potential source of leptospiral infection - domestic rats which have become favorite home pets in the last twenty years. Three patients with various severities of the disease and treated in 2005-2010 are reported. The patients most likely acquired the leptospiral infection from their pet rats.
Weil's disease, milker's fever and other leptospiroses, 1981-1987]	In The Netherlands, human leptospirosis is mainly caused by the serovars icterohaemorrhagiae and copenhageni, both of which belong to the Icterohaemorrhagiae group and originate from rats, serovars hardjo from cattle and grippotyphosa from voles. In 1981-1987, 175 cases of leptospirosis were registered. In 17 of these cases the infection was acquired outside The Netherlands. Infections caused by serovars from the Icterohaemorrhagiae group were mainly observed in the province of Zuid-Holland, hardjo infections in the province of Friesland. The number of hardjo infections increased. Hardjo also causes problems in cattle. Infections caused by serovars icterohaemorrhagiae and copenhageni were mainly associated with exposure to inland surface waters in relation with recreational or professional activities or accidents. Hardjo infections were characteristically associated with dairy farming. The incidences of all types of leptospirosis were highest in late summer and early autumn.
Serodiagnosis of human leptospirosis by counterimmunoelectrophoresis.	The counterimmunoelectrophoresis (CIE) technique employing a soluble extract antigen was found useful in screening human sera for antileptospiral antibodies to multiple leptospiral serovars. The CIE test results with sera from patients with suspected cases of leptospirosis and sera from a control group compared favorably (97.9%) with those obtained by the microscopic agglutination test using a battery of live leptospiral antigens. CIE is easy to perform, is highly sensitive, uses an antigen which is very stable at room temperature, and permits the screening of many sera in a short period of time. The CIE technique appears to be ideally suited to a small laboratory where facilities may be too limited for examining sera by the microscopic agglutination test.
Serodiagnosis of leptospirosis in China by the one-point MCA method.	The one-point MCA method is very simple to perform and useful as a screening test in diagnosing leptospirosis in routine clinical laboratories. The kit, sensitized with six serovars occurring in Japan, was also useful in detecting serum antibodies of patients with leptospirosis in China.
One-point method for serological diagnosis of leptospirosis: a microcapsule agglutination test.	This paper describes a simple and rapid microcapsule agglutination (MCA) test. The results obtained by this new test have been compared with those obtained by the microtitre MCA and the microscopic agglutination (MA) test. The procedures required for the new test are easier and can be performed more rapidly than those necessary for the microtitre MCA test. Furthermore, the new test is more sensitive than the MA test in the early stages of leptospirosis. This new test appears satisfactory as a screening test for the early diagnosis of leptospirosis.
Experimental trials on the use of radioimmunoassay for the detection of leptospiral antigens in urine.	Trials were conducted on the use of the solid phase radioimmunoassay (RIA) to detect leptospires or their antigens in simulated urine samples. The procedure was relatively simple to perform and appeared to be specific in detecting certain numbers of leptospiral organisms or their antigens in experimentally prepared samples. With this technique, it was possible to examine individual or pooled urine samples for the presence of leptospires within half a day. This technique may be of value for the detection of leptospiruric animals if the sensitivity of the technique could be further increased. Suggestions for the improvement of the procedure are discussed.
Leptospirosis on the Island of Reunion. I. Human leptospiroses]	Human leptospiroses in the island of Reunion have a common point: they are severe diseases. Approximately 50 to 60 cases are biologically diagnosed every year. The number of cases is correlated with rainfall. The predominating serogroup is Icterohaemorrhagiae, followed by Canicola, Grippotyphosa and Australis.
Markedly elevated creatinine phosphokinase, cotton wool spots, and pericarditis in a patient with leptospirosis.	We are reporting a patient with acute leptospirosis whose creatinine phosphokinase was markedly elevated secondary to an associated myositis. In patients presenting with acute hepatitis, an elevated creatinine phosphokinase should suggest the diagnosis of leptospirosis. Our patient's course of illness was made unusual by the appearance of cotton wool spots, previously unreported in leptospirosis as well as by pericarditis in the absence of uremia. This illustrates our ever widening recognition of the clinical manifestations of leptospirosis.
Leptospirosis experience at Groote Schuur Hospital, 1969-1979.	The diagnosis of leptospirosis requires a high index of suspicion and a knowledge of the wide variety of syndromes with which these patients present. The clinical and laboratory features of 14 patients with leptospirosis seen at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, between 1969 and 1979 are described.
Analysis on early serum samples from patients with leptospirosis by polymerase chain reaction]	Fifty-five serum samples from patients with leptospirosis treated by the method of high SiO2 concentration salt solution absorption were analysed with the variable sequences of the 16S rRNA genes of Leptospria interrogans as primers. It is shown that the 16S rRNA gene primer is useful for the clinical detection and the epidemic investigation of leptospirosis, and the detecting effect by PCR is superior to that by the blood culture and MAT (P < 0.01).
Prognostic significance of the NBT test in patients with ichterohaemorrhagic leptospirosis]	The values of spontaneous NBT test significantly rise at the peak of leptospirosis in patients with an uncomplicated course of the disease (p < 0.05). Low values of the spontaneous NBT test with stimulation with Staphylococcus in patients with grave leptospirosis predict the development of life-threatening complications. Leptospirosis vaccine reduced the elevated values of the NBT in leptospirosis. The depressing effect of leptospirosis vaccine is indicative of a high risk of development of late complications.
Amplified 23S rRNA gene of 52 strains of Leptospira and detection of leptospiral DNA in 55 patients by PCR]	Based upon the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), We have developed a sensitive assay for Leptospira interrogans, the agent of leptospirosis. DNA amplification was carried out using primer A: 5'GATCTAATTCGCTGTAGCAGG3' and primer B: 5'ACTTTCACCCTCTATGGTCGG3'. After 30 cycles of amplification, the product could be detected by agarose gel electrophoresis. A segment (124 bp) was amplified in all strains of L. interrogans including 20 Serogroups, 49 Serovars tested, but it was not detected in Patoc I strain, Serovar patoc of Leptospira biflexa and 3055 strain of Leptonema illini (both of which are nonpathogenic). All of the serum (first time) which proved either by blood culture or MAT showed that positive rates were 100%. Leptospiral infection in humans and some domestic animals leads to one or more of a variety of manifestation and persists through a considerable duration of time. However it is relatively difficult to demonstrate the presence of leptospires in serum. The serum (second time) obtained from 55 patients with leptospirosis (6-60 days after on set) showed that PCR positive rates were 74.55% (41/55). The PCR positive rates for healthy subjects were 15% (3/20), P < 0.001. The diagnosis of leptospirosis by using PCR may become a significant addition to the routine laboratory diagnosis and a valuable technique for the investigation of leptospirosis pathogenesis.
