A GC/ECNI-MS method for the identification of lipophilic anthropogenic and natural brominated compounds in marine samples.	GC/ECNI-MS in both the full scan and selected ion monitoring modes was applied to study the patterns of brominated compounds in the blubber of marine mammals from a variety of locations. The adipose tissue of one polar bear was also studied. Occurrence of three major residues originating from the use of brominated flame-retardants (PBDE 47, 99, and 100) and several potential naturally occurring brominated compounds was studied in the samples. A series of three major natural brominated compounds (BC-1, BC-2, BC-3) recently identified in dolphins from Australia was included in this study. Two further brominated compounds, BC-10 and BC-11, were studied for the first time. ECNI-MS full scan spectra were obtained for BC-3 and BC-10. A natural mixed halogenated compound (MHC-1) and an unknown brominated compound (UBC-1) were investigated as well. Evidence for the natural production of these secondary metabolites and their bioaccumulation in higher organisms as well as analytical protocols for their detection in the environment are presented. Some of these naturally occurring compounds may be misinterpreted as anthropogenic brominated compounds. In ECNI-MS, brominated compounds are usually identified by the detection of the fragment ions m/z 79 ([79Br]-) and m/z 81 ([81Br]-). In this work, it is shown that monitoring of additional ion traces corresponding to [Br2]- (160 type), [HBr2]- (161 type), [BrCl]- (116 type), and [HBrCl]- (117 type) fragment ions allows distinguishing between different classes of brominated compounds. This technique was used to demonstrate that UBC-1 is neither a PBDE nor a PBB congener, whereas a second mixed halogenated compound (MHC-2) was identified as a result of the ECNI-MS response at m/z 114/116. Studies on blubber extracts of marine mammals from four continents resulted in the detection of significant differences in the global distribution of brominated compounds. Our results suggest that naturally occurring organobromines are more abundant than anthropogenic brominated compounds in several regions of the world.
A zymogel enhances the self-cleaning abilities of the skin of the pilot whale (Globicephala melas).	Enzyme activity in the stratum corneum of the pilot whale Globicephala melas was investigated employing colorimetric enzyme screening assays combined with NATIVE PAGE, size exclusion chromatography (SEC) and histochemical staining procedures. Applying different substrates, several enzymes were detected. The histochemical demonstration of some selected hydrolytic enzymes enriched in the stratum corneum showed high extracellular accumulation. As demonstrated by size exclusion chromatography, high molar mass aggregates were built up from a glycoprotein-rich 20-30-kD fraction. Using NATIVE PAGE experiments under non-reducing conditions, a selection of five degrading enzymes was recovered within the above-reported aggregates. Activity of extracellular aggregate-attached enzymes in the superficial layer of the stratum corneum exhibited no remarkable decrease potentially resulting from self-degradation. We thus conclude that due to their enclosure within the microenvironment of aggregates, a zymogel is formed and autolysis of the stratum corneum is reduced. With respect to the skin surface, the zymogel with hydrolytic activities covering major parts of it enhances the self-cleaning abilities of the skin of the pilot whale based on physical pre-requisites by hydrolyzing adhesive glycoconjugates of settling biofouling organisms considered as primary steps in fouling.
Unusually weak oxygen binding, physical properties, partial sequence, autoxidation rate and a potential phosphorylation site of beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas) myoglobin.	We purified myoglobin from beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas) muscle (longissimus dorsi) with size exclusion and cation exchange chromatographies. The molecular mass was determined by mass spectrometry (17,081 Da) and the isoelectric pH (9.4) by capillary isoelectric focusing. The near-complete amino acid sequence was determined and a phylogeny indicated that beluga was in the same clad as Dall's and harbor porpoises. There were consensus motifs for a phosphorylation site on the protein surface with the most likely site at serine-117. This motif was common to all cetacean myoglobins examined. Two oxygen-binding studies at 37 degrees C indicated dissociation constants (20.5 and 23.6 microM) 5.7-6.6 times larger than horse myoglobin (3.6 microM). The autoxidation rate of beluga myoglobin at 37 degrees C, pH 7.2 was 0.218+/-0.028 h(-1), 1/3 larger than reported for myoglobin of terrestrial mammals. There was no clear sequence change to explain the difference in oxygen binding or autoxidation although substitutions (N66 and T67) in an invariant rich sequence (HGNTV) distal to the heme may play a role. Structural models based on the protein sequence and constructed on topologies of known templates (horse and sperm whale crystal structures) were not adequate to assess perturbation of the heme pocket.
Concentrations of persistent organochlorine contaminants in bowhead whale tissues and other biota from northern Alaska: implications for human exposure from a subsistence diet.	Bowhead whale (Balaena mysticetus; n = 5) blubber, liver, muscle, kidney, heart, diaphragm, tongue, and uncooked maktak (bowhead whale epidermis and blubber) were collected during subsistence hunts at Barrow, AK, USA (1997-1999) to measure concentrations of persistent organochlorine contaminants (OCs). The exposure of humans to OCs via bowhead whales and other biota [fish, ringed (Phoca hispida) and bearded seals (Erignathus barbatus), and beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas)] as part of a subsistence diet was evaluated. Concentrations of OCs in bowhead whale tissues were correlated with lipid content (P < 0.001) and were less than levels in other marine mammals reported herein, reflecting the lower trophic status of this cetacean. The relative proportions of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) and sum (Sigma) concentrations of chlordane components (SigmaCHL), DDT-related compounds (SigmaDDT), and polychlorinated biphenyls (SigmaPCB) were not statistically different among the tissues analyzed (P < 0.05). However, relatively higher proportions of hexachlorocyclohexane isomers (SigmaHCH), particularly beta-HCH, were observed in bowhead whale heart and diaphragm (P < 0.03). Based on Canadian and World Health Organization daily intake guidelines, "safe" human consumption rates of bowhead whale tissue and other marine biota were calculated. The most restrictive limits (mean value) for daily consumption for bowhead and beluga whale were 302 and 78 g for maktak and maktaaq (beluga whale epidermis and blubber), respectively. The tolerable daily intake limits of dioxin-like compounds from the consumption of bowhead whale blubber and liver were calculated to be 199 g (approximately 600 g for maktak) and 2222 g, respectively. A detailed profile of traditional/country foods consumed by subsistence communities of northern Alaska is required to address chronic exposure in more detail. Overall, bowhead whale tissues and other biota from northern Alaska are safe to consume at, or below, the levels calculated.
Assessing reproductive status of right whales (Eubalaena glacialis) using fecal hormone metabolites.	Long-term studies of the endangered North Atlantic right whale, Eubalaena glacialis, have revealed declining reproductive parameters over the past two decades, threatening recovery of this small population if current trends continue. Little is known about right whale reproductive physiology, and investigating this reproductive decline has been limited by a lack of non-lethal methods for assessing reproductive status (e.g., sexual maturation, ovarian activity, pregnancy, lactation, and reproductive senescence) in free-swimming whales. This paper describes validation of existing radioimmunoassay techniques to study reproduction in right whales by measuring estrogens, progestins, androgens, and their related metabolites in fecal samples. Over the past decade fecal steroid hormone assays have been used to assess reproductive status and function in a wide range of terrestrial wildlife species, but this is the first application of this methodology in wild cetaceans. Analysis of fecal hormone metabolite levels in combination with life history data from photographically identified whales shows that this non-invasive method can be used to determine gender, detect pregnancy and lactation, and to assess age at sexual maturity in right whales and potentially other endangered whale populations.
δ15N value does not reflect fasting in mysticetes.	The finding that tissue δ(15)N values increase with protein catabolism has led researchers to apply this value to gauge nutritive condition in vertebrates. However, its application to marine mammals has in most occasions failed. We investigated the relationship between δ(15)N values and the fattening/fasting cycle in a model species, the fin whale, a migratory capital breeder that experiences severe seasonal variation in body condition. We analyzed two tissues providing complementary insights: one with isotopic turnover (muscle) and one that keeps a permanent record of variations in isotopic values (baleen plates). In both tissues δ(15)N values increased with intensive feeding but decreased with fasting, thus contradicting the pattern previously anticipated. The apparent inconsistency during fasting is explained by the fact that a) individuals migrate between different isotopic isoscapes, b) starvation may not trigger significant negative nitrogen balance, and c) excretion drops and elimination of 15N-depleted urine is minimized. Conversely, when intensive feeding is resumed in the northern grounds, protein anabolism and excretion start again, triggering 15N enrichment. It can be concluded that in whales and other mammals that accrue massive depots of lipids as energetic reserves and which have limited access to drinking water, the δ15N value is not affected by fasting and therefore cannot be used as an indication of nutritive condition.
Occurrence of 2-O-acyl galactosyl ceramide in whale brain.	Four glycolipids (Fr. I, II, III, and IV) were isolated from whale brain and three (Fr. I, II, and III) of them were demonstrated to be galactosyl ceramide combined with fatty acid by ester linkage. Fr. IV was shown to be a monoalkyl monoacyl galactosyl glycerol. For determining the substituted position of the acyl group on the galactose moiety, free hydroxyl groups of ester cerebrosides were protected with dihydropyran, deacylated by mild alkali treatment, and then subjected to permethylation. Finally, the methylated galactitol acetates obtained by hydrolysis and reduction were detected by gas chromatography and identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. By this procedure, Fr. I was shown to be an acyl ester of kerasine, with the ester group at the 6-position of galactose. Fr. II and III were demonstrated to be acyl esters of phrenosine, in which the acyl groups were attached to the 6- and 2-position of the galactose, respectively. While the ester-linked acyl group of Fr. I, II, and III was composed of only normal fatty acids, predominantly palmitic acid, and the amide-linked fatty acids showed a heterogeneous composition of normal and hydroxy fatty acids, C16 to C24.
Comparison of the structures of different forms of sperm whale myoglobin in solution using wide angle x-ray scattering]	Experimental X-ray diffuse scattering curves in a wide range of angles for oxy-, deoxy-, met- and cyan-forms of sperm whale myoglobin in solution have been obtained. It has been found that scattering indicatrices of these ligand forms of myoglobin are well compatible with each other and differ from the theoretical scattering curve of met-myoglobin, calculated from the structure of this protein in crystal. The conclusions have been drawn: (1) on the similarity of myoglobin structures in solution for all the protein forms studied; (2) on the difference in the structure of the above ligand forms of myoglobin in solution from the structure of the protein in crystal by a slight shift (about 2 A) of the "hairpin" GH.
Catalytic and immunochemical characterization of hepatic microsomal cytochromes P450 in beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas).	Understanding the effects of environmental contaminants on cetaceans and other marine mammals will require information on the biochemistry of xenobiotic metabolism in these species. We characterized the hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 system in beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) from the Canadian Arctic. The content of native P450 averaged 0.203 and 0.319 nmol/mg microsomal protein, cytochrome b5 content averaged 0.199 and 0.236 nmol/mg, and rates of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase were 79 and 76 nmol/min/mg, for females and males respectively. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD), and benzo[a]pyrene (BP) hydroxylase (AHH) activities were significantly greater in males than in females, and were highly correlated with one another (r2 between 0.853 and 0.912). HPLC analysis of in vitro BP metabolites revealed benzo-ring (7,8- and 9,10-) dihydrodiols, consistent with activation of this compound, as well as 4,5-dihydrodiol,3-OH-, 7-OH-, and 9-OH-BP and 1,6- and 3,6-quinones. Estradiol 2-hydroxylase activity did not differ between sexes, and rates did not correlate with those of the other activities. Antibodies against scup P450B (an apparent teleost CYP2B) and rat CYP2B1 did not recognize proteins in beluga liver microsomes, but there was a protein detected by antibodies to PB-inducible rabbit CYP2B4. Antibodies to ethanol and ketone-inducible rat CYP2E1 reacted with two proteins in beluga liver microsomes. Antibodies specific to hydrocarbon-inducible CYP1A1 and/or CYP1A2 forms showed a single protein band, apparently more closely related to CYP1A1. The content of CYP1A was fivefold greater in male than in female beluga. CYP1A content was highly correlated with EROD, PROD, and AHH activities, suggesting that this P450 form is a primary catalyst for these reactions in beluga. CYP1A content and activity were highly correlated with the concentrations in blubber of non-ortho and mono-ortho PCB congeners, compounds that induce CYP1A in other mammals. These results indicate that a CYP1A is a catalyst for the metabolism of aromatic hydrocarbon pollutants in the beluga whale, and strongly suggest that this protein is induced in these organisms by environmental contaminants, including PCBs. The results support the measurement of CYP1A expression as a biomarker of exposure to inducers in marine mammals. The full functional and evolutionary relationships of beluga CYP1A and of beluga proteins immunologically related to other P450 forms are uncertain.
Bioaccumulation of vanadium and other trace metals in livers of Alaskan cetaceans and pinnipeds.	Concentrations for 38 elements are routinely measured in the marine mammal liver tissues archived in the National Biomonitoring Specimen Bank (NBSB). Results show that hepatic concentrations of vanadium, selenium, silver, cadmium, and mercury are positively correlated with age for beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) and of vanadium, selenium, cadmium, and mercury with length for ringed seals (Phoca hispada). Many researchers have reported linear correlations of hepatic selenium, cadmium, and mercury with marine mammal age; however, there is only one other report of a linear correlation of hepatic vanadium with marine mammal age. Vanadium levels are at or below detection limits (< or = 0.01 micrograms/g) in liver tissues of U.S. east coast marine mammals from the NBSB but are present at levels ranging from 0.02 to 1.2 micrograms/g of wet weight in the tissues of Alaskan marine mammals. Although only three bearded seal (Eriganthus barbatus) and three bow-head whale (Balaena mysticetus) liver samples have been analyzed, hepatic vanadium levels also increased with animal size for these species. The presence of relatively high levels of vanadium in the livers of these Alaskan animals may reflect a unique dietary source of vanadium, a unique geochemical source of vanadium, or anthropogenic input to the Alaskan marine environment.
Health implications for Faroe islanders of heavy metals and PCBs from pilot whales.	In the Faroe Islands marine food constitutes a considerable part of the diet. In addition to fish, both meat and blubber from pilot whales are included in the diet. Muscle tissue of pilot whales caught in the Faroe Islands contains an average mercury concentration of 3.3 micrograms/g (16 nmol/g), about half of which is methylmercury. In some years an evenly distributed annual catch of pilot whales would make the average dietary intake of mercury close to an excess of the Provisional Temporary Weekly Intake of 0.3 mg recommended by WHO. In one out of eight consecutive births, the mercury concentration in maternal hair exceeded a limit of 10 micrograms/g where a risk of neurobehavioral dysfunction in the child may occur; the maximum was 39.1 micrograms/g. Mercury concentrations in umbilical cord blood showed a similar distribution with a maximum of 351 micrograms/l. The large variation in mercury exposure is associated with differences in the frequency of whale dinners. The average PCB concentration in pilot whale blubber is very high, i.e. about 30 micrograms/g. With an estimated daily consumption of 7 g of blubber, the average daily PCB intake could therefore exceed 200 micrograms, i.e. close to the Acceptable Daily Intake. In Scandinavia, the average daily PCB intake is about 15-20 micrograms. To obtain an improved scientific basis for public health action, two major prospective studies have been initiated. A birth cohort of 1000 children has been examined at approximately 7 years of age for neurobehavioral dysfunctions associated with prenatal exposure to mercury and PCB. Preliminary analyses of the data show that several neurobehavioral tests are associated with mercury exposure parameters. With emphasis on prenatal exposures to PCB, another cohort has been generated during 1994-95, and this cohort will be followed closely during the next years.
Overview and regional and temporal differences of heavy metals in Arctic whales and ringed seals in the Canadian Arctic.	Concentrations of mercury, cadmium, and other heavy metals in tissues of belugas (Delphinapterus leucas), narwhal (Monodon monoceros) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida) from across the Canadian Arctic are reported. Published and new information is used to provide an overview of metals in tissues of these animals, to delineate the existence of a spatial trend of mercury and cadmium in belugas and ringed seals, and to show a temporal trend is superimposed on the geochemical trend. Mercury concentrations in tissues of Arctic whales and ringed seals were high relative to the Canadian guideline of 0.5 micrograms/g wet wt., for mercury in fish, except in the skin of belugas (0.59-0.78 micrograms/g wet wt.) and flesh of ringed seals (0.39-0.41 micrograms/g wet wt.). In the flesh of belugas (0.94-1.34 micrograms/g wet wt.), and in the liver of ringed seals, tissues that are also consumed by Native people in the Arctic (8.34-27.5 micrograms/g wet wt.), the guideline value was significantly exceeded. Mean lead concentrations in tissues of belugas, narwhal and ringed seals were generally low (0.002-0.028 micrograms/g wet wt.), except in tissues of belugas in the St. Lawrence River (0.10-0.15 micrograms/g wet wt.). The concentration of zinc in the skin of whales was two to three times higher than in other tissues. The concentration of cadmium in organs was highest in narwhal. There was a positive correlation between mercury and selenium in the liver of all three species. The concentration of mercury in tissues of belugas and ringed seals was higher in the western than the eastern Arctic. This was attributed to different natural background concentrations in the western and eastern Arctic of Canada dictated by different geological formations in the two regions. Cadmium concentrations in tissues of belugas and ringed seals were higher in the eastern than the western Arctic. Zinc and copper in some tissues of belugas and ringed seals were also higher in the eastern than the western Arctic. Mercury in the liver of belugas was found to have increased in the western and eastern Arctic over 10-12 years. Mercury in the liver of ringed seals in the western Arctic and narwhal in the eastern Arctic showed similar increases. In recently collected belugas, the rate of accumulation of mercury in the liver was approximately twice that in belugas collected 10-12 years ago. In ringed seals, the rate was three times higher in recent samples compared to 15-20 years ago. There was no temporal change in cadmium levels in tissues of belugas, ringed seals or narwhal.
Mercury in pilot whales: possible limits to the detoxification process.	The ability of pilot whales (Globicephala melas) to concentrate cadmium and mercury is well established. The levels of these metals were generally higher than those encountered in other species of marine mammals. The biological data have not revealed a major toxic problem in the population, and this suggests a remarkable tolerance of this species to heavy metals. Cellular distribution of mercury was carried out in liver samples. The presence of metallothionein-like proteins in the soluble fraction has been demonstrated, but 95% of mercury was mainly bound to the insoluble fraction, showing that these proteins had no role in this metal detoxification. The molar ratio between mercury and selenium suggests that the major mechanism of detoxification is through the formation of a complex Hg-Se which leads to the demethylation of mercury. The site of this process is the liver in which mercury mainly appeared as inorganic, whereas in the muscle the percentage of organic to total mercury was much higher. Nevertheless, this detoxification is limited in lactating females and in all the individuals of one school. This could be the result of changes in the diet and could constitute a toxicological risk for the species.
Production rates of volatile fatty acids in the minke whale (Balaenoptera acutorostrata) forestomach.	Minke whales (Balaenoptera acutorostrata) have developed a compartmentalized stomach system, which includes a non-glandular forestomach containing high concentrations of indigenous bacteria. The forestomach contents serve as microbial substrate, and samples were collected from five adult minke whales eating capelin (Mallotus villosus) and crustaceans (Thysanoessa sp.). Chemical analysis of the forestomach contents revealed that they consisted of crude protein (650 (SD 58) g/kg DM), lipid (330 (SD 77) g/kg DM) and water-soluble carbohydrates (53.3 (SD 7.3) g/kg DM). The contribution of energy from volatile fatty acids (VFA), produced by forestomach bacterial fermentation, to the total energy budget was estimated. The forestomach concentration of VFA ranged from 13.2 to 68.5 mmol/l, and the pH was 5.83 (SD 0.41). VFA pool size ranged from 72.8 to 638.1 mmol and represented from 0.169 to 2.107 kJ/kg live weight (W)0-75. Maximal recorded forestomach VFA production rate was 1694 mmol/h in one capelin-eating minke whale with 42.6 litres of forestomach fluid. Energy from VFA produced by forestomach fermentation represented 6-107 kJ/kg (W)0-75 per d, which accounts for only 0.9-16.9% of the average daily energy expenditure of minke whales. This study suggests that the bacterial fermentation in the minke whale forestomach varies, depending on the volume and the quality of substrate available, influencing fermentation rates and concentration of VFA. Due to the small relative size of the forestomach, the contribution of VFA to the daily energy requirement in minke whales would be of less importance than in ruminants even when assuming the same production rate of VFA as in a ruminant.
