Synergistic effect of IL-3 and IL-6 on highly enriched murine hemopoietic progenitors.	It has been reported that interleukin 6 (IL-6) acts on hemopoietic stem cells in synergism with interleukin 3 (IL-3), but it has not yet been clarified whether IL-6 acts directly on the stem cells or not. To investigate the mechanism of the synergism between IL-3 and IL-6, we sorted hemopoietic stem cells from untreated murine bone marrow cells using a two-laser fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS). Cells negative for the lymphohemopoietic lineage (lineage-negative, Lin-), with a high affinity to wheat germ agglutinin (WGA+), and showing a low expression of Thy-1 antigen (Thy-1low) were sorted and analyzed by in vitro and in vivo colony formation. This fraction was 0.4% of the total mononuclear bone marrow cells. Approximately 25% of these Lin-WGA+Thy-1low cells showed in vitro colony formation, whereas approximately 1% of them formed day-8 and day-12 spleen colonies. Thus, it appears that the Lin-WGA+Thy-1low cells were a highly enriched stem cell population. By FACS clone sorting, single cells were isolated from the enriched stem cell fraction and cultured in semisolid or liquid culture systems. Addition of IL-6 to methylcellulose medium containing IL-3 did not significantly increase the number of colonies. It is thus suggested that the target cells of IL-3 and IL-6 are the same as those of IL-3. The secondary colony-forming ability of primary colonies that developed in the presence of IL-6 and IL-3 was higher than that of colonies formed in the presence of IL-3 alone. In correspondence with this finding, the numbers of myeloid colonies and spleen colony-forming units (CFU-S) were increased by the incubation of these sorted cells for 7 days with IL-6 and IL-3 when compared with the effect of IL-3 alone. Therefore, it is concluded that IL-6 acts directly on hemopoietic stem cells to enhance their proliferation.
Development of a sensitive and reliable ELISA for quantification of wheat germ agglutinin.	Among others, lectin-mediated drug delivery is currently discussed as a promising strategy towards improved bioavailability of biotech drugs. For quantitative determination of the lectin from wheat germ (WGA), a sandwich ELISA relying on capture of the lectin by pig gastric mucin coated wells and detection of bound WGA by a lectin specific first antibody followed by peroxidase-labelled second antibody was elaborated. The stepwise optimised protocol allows quantification over the range from 10 to 1000 ng/ml WGA with a coefficient of determination of 0.9991. The day to day variation was +/-0.09 OD at 500 ng/ml WGA. Additionally, the presented ELISA-protocol allows determination of WGA in serum with the same sensitivity and reliability as in buffer. Lectins with different carbohydrate specificity such as those from jack beans and peanuts exhibited no cross-reactivity. Among the lectins with the same carbohydrate specificity that from potatoes interfered with the assay, whereas that from tomatoes was not recognised by the first antibody. Since the potato lectin is fully degraded in the intestine, no cross-reactivity with WGA is expected in serum samples. Following on from these results, the absorption rate of WGA in biologically active form might be determined as a basis for further steps towards improved drug delivery systems.
A highly sensitive one-step method for silver intensification of the nickel-diaminobenzidine endproduct of peroxidase reaction.	We have developed a new technique which makes silver intensification of the oxidatively polymerized diaminobenzidine (DAB), the endproduct of peroxidase reaction, less laborious without any loss in selectivity or sensitivity. The new technique is based on two strategies: (a) increasing the argyrophilia of the DAB by modifying its polymerization with Ni ions, and (b) decreasing tissue argyrophila by using a mildly acidic physical developer instead of the alkaline one previously presented. Because the nickel modification takes place in the DAB substrate solution, i.e., in the final step of the peroxidase reaction, only one additional step, the physical development, must be carried out if intensification is needed.
Lectin binding in human breast cancer: clinical and pathologic correlations with fluorescein-conjugated peanut, wheat germ and concanavalin A binding.	Cell surface glycoconjugates of human breast cancer tissue were investigated using FITC peanut (PNA), wheat germ (WGA) and jackbean (concanavalin A; Con A) agglutinins. Although PNA and WGA binding patterns differed when normal and malignant breast tissues were compared, the specificity of this finding was poor and neither PNA nor WGA binding correlated with oestrogen receptor status or clinical outcome. Con A binding on the other hand was not seen in normal breast tissue. The percentage of Con-A-positive (Con A+) tumours increased progressively with advancing stage (16% Con A+ in stage I, 40% Con A+ in stage III) and there was a trend towards longer disease-free survival of patients with Con A- as compared to those with Con A+ tumours. However, in a multivariate analysis it was found that these differences were explained by the association with the stage of the disease.
Lectin histochemistry in the human epididymis.	A histochemical study using lectins to identify glycoconjugates present in the efferent ducts and ductus epididymidis of men without testicular or related disease was carried out. The lectins used and the oligosaccharide residues linked were: wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) for beta-N-acetylglucosamine and sialic acid, concanavalin A (ConA) for alpha-mannose, Ulex europaeus agglutinin (UEA-I) for alpha-fucose, Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA) for alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine, soy bean agglutinin (SBA) for beta-N-acetylgalactosamine, and peanut agglutinin (PNA) for beta-galactose. The lectin-binding pattern in the human epididymis presents similarities and differences to those observed in other mammals which also showed differences between species. The present results revealed that regional differences along the human ductus epididymidis were less pronounced than those reported in other mammals. The epithelial cells in the efferent ducts reacted positively to WGA. All along the length of the ductus epididymidis, the principal cells and the luminal content showed staining affinity for WGA and ConA. The epididymal principal cells and luminal content also reacted positively to DBA for alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine but only in the cauda epididymidis. A positive reaction to UEA-I was observed only in the luminal content of the cauda epididymidis. This finding suggests that changes in the oligosaccharide chains of secretions leading to a positive UEA-I reaction occur in the cauda epididymidis. The epididymal principal cells showed positive reactions to SBA and PNA over the apical microvilli but not in the cytoplasm. The reaction was observed in the caput and corpus epididymidis but not in the cauda. Positive reactions to SBA and PNA were also detected in the epididymal fluid and in the cytoplasm of mitochondria-rich cells (a minor population of epididymal epithelial cells). These cells also reacted to other lectins such as WGA, ConA and DBA, which were also detected in the principal cells.
