Cubitus interruptus is necessary but not sufficient for direct activation of a wing-specific decapentaplegic enhancer.	In Drosophila, the imaginal discs are the primordia for adult appendages. Their proper formation is dependent upon the activation of the decapentaplegic (dpp) gene in a stripe of cells just anterior to the compartment boundary. In imaginal discs, the dpp gene has been shown to be activated by Hedgehog signal transduction. However, an initial analysis of its enhancer region suggests that its regulation is complex and depends upon additional factors. In order to understand how multiple factors regulate dpp expression, we chose to focus on a single dpp enhancer element, the dpp heldout enhancer, from the 3' cis regulatory disc region of the dpp locus. In this report, we present a molecular analysis of this 358 bp wing- and haltere-specific dpp enhancer, which demonstrates a direct transcriptional requirement for the Cubitus interruptus (Ci) protein. The results suggest that, in addition to regulation by Ci, expression of the dpp heldout enhancer is spatially determined by Drosophila TCF (dTCF) and the Vestigial/Scalloped selector system and that temporal control is provided by dpp autoregulation. Consistent with the unexpectedly complex regulation of the dpp heldout enhancer, analysis of a Ci consensus site reporter construct suggests that Ci, a mediator of Hedgehog transcriptional activation, can only transactivate in concert with other factors.
The influence of locomotion on air-sac pressures in little penguins.	Air-sac pressures have been reported to oscillate with wing beat in flying magpies and with foot paddling in diving ducks. We sought to determine the impact on air-sac pressure of wing beats during swimming and of the step cycle during walking in little penguins (Eudyptula minor). Fluctuations averaged 0.16+/-0.06 kPa in the interclavicular air sacs, but only 0.06+/-0.04 kPa in the posterior thoracic sac, generating a small differential pressure between sacs of 0.06+/-0.02 kPa (means +/- S.E.M., N=4). These fluctuations occurred at approximately 3 Hz and corresponded to wing beats during swimming, indicated by electromyograms from the pectoralis and supracoracoideus muscles. There was no abdominal muscle activity associated with swimming or exhalation, but the abdominal muscles were active with the step cycle in walking penguins, and oscillations in posterior air-sac pressure (0.08+/-0.038 kPa) occurred with steps. We conclude that high-frequency oscillations in differential air-sac pressure enhance access to and utilization of the O(2) stores in the air sacs during a dive.
Sexual behavior and diel activity of citrus fruit borer Ecdytolopha aurantiana.	Males and virgin females of the citrus fruit borer Ecdytolopha aurantiana Lima, displayed two flight peaks during a 24-hr period, one at dawn and the other at dusk in an orange grove near Gavião Peixoto, São Paulo, Brazil. During the day, when temperatures were highest and relative humidity lowest, most individuals rested on leaves in the lower and middle crown. Moths rapidly moved higher in the crown after sunset, and many were observed flying above the tree canopy. This behavior was mainly associated with mating. Males and virgin females marked with fluorescent powder of different colors were observed in the dark with the aid of a black light. Mating was observed only in the upper crown of citrus trees from 6:00 to 9:00 PM, with a peak (64%) between 7:00 and 8:00 PM. Males of E. aurantiana were captured in traps baited either with virgin females or female extracts, suggesting the use of a long-range sex pheromone. At close distance (1-2 cm), males and females displayed a short-range communication behavior, with males exposing hairpencils and vibrating their wings. Females were frequently stimulated to contact the body of a male before copulation. The mean duration of copulation was 1 hr 40 min.
Insect wing conjunctival granuloma.	To report a case of conjunctival granuloma formation in response to lodgment of an insect wing.
Leptin increases T-cell immune response in birds.	Leptin is a 16 kDa protein hormone that besides being a satiety factor also functions as a pleiotropic molecule regulating endocrine and immune functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of leptin on mitogen stimulated T-lymphocyte proliferation in birds. In the first experiment (in vitro), peripheral blood was collected from turkeys and lymphocytes were isolated from samples. Recombinant chicken leptin was added at concentrations of 0, 10(-9), 10(-8), 10(-7), and 10(-6) M prior to mitogen stimulation with Concavalin A. BrdU incorporation allowed us to detect T-cell proliferation using intracellular labeling of nucleic acids. Mitogen activation induced with Concavalin A caused a proliferation of T-cells that was positively correlated with the concentration of leptin. In the second experiment (in vivo), asian blue quail were fitted with osmotic pumps releasing leptin and injected with phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in their wing-webs before, during, and after leptin administration. The response to mitogen was greater in leptin treated birds during the leptin administration, but not before or after. These findings demonstrate that leptin enhances mitogen stimulated T-cell proliferation in birds. The results correspond with previous reports on mammals.
The metathoracic wing-hinge chordotonal organ of an atympanate moth, Actias luna (Lepidoptera, Saturniidae): a light- and electron-microscopic study.	The structure of a simple chordotonal organ, the presumed homologue of the noctuoid moth tympanal organ, is described in the atympanate moth, Actias luna. The organ consists of a proximal scolopidial region and a distal strand, which attaches peripherally to the membraneous cuticle ventral to the hindwing alula. The strand is composed of elongate, microtubule-rich cells encased in an extracellular connective tissue sheath. The scolopidial region houses three mononematic, monodynal scolopidia, each comprised of a sensory cell, scolopale cell, and attachment cell. The dendritic apex is octagonally shaped in transverse section, its inner membrane lined by a laminated structure reminiscent of the noctuoid tympanal organ 'collar'. A 9 + 0-type cilium emerges from the dendritic apex, passes through both the scolopale lumen and cap, and terminates in an extracellular space distal to the latter. Proximal extensions of the attachment cell and distal prolongations of the scolopale cell surrounding the cap are joined by an elaborate desmosome, with which is associated an extensive electron-dense fibrillar plaque. Within the scolopale cell, this plaque constitutes the scolopale 'rod' material. The data are discussed in terms of both the organ's potential function, and its significance as the evolutionary prototype of the noctuoid moth ear.
Identification of the neurotransmitters involved in modulation of transmitter release from the central terminals of the locust wing hinge stretch receptor.	The flight motor system of the locust represents a model preparation for the investigation of neuromodulation. At the wing hinges are stretch receptors important in generating and controlling the flight motor pattern. The forewing stretch receptor (fSR) makes direct cholinergic synapses with depressor motor neurons (MN) controlling that wing, including the first basalar MN (BA1). The fSR/BA1 synapse is modulated by muscarinic cholinergic receptors located on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic interneurons (Judge and Leitch [1999a] J. Comp. Neurol. 407:103-114; Judge and Leitch [1999b] J. Neurobiol. 40:420-431). However, electrophysiology has shown that fSR/BA is also modulated by biogenic amines (Leitch et al. [2003] J. Comp. Neurol. 462:55-70). We have used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry (ICC) to identify the neurotransmitters in neurons presynaptic to the fSR and to determine the relative proportion of these different classes of modulatory inputs. Approximately 55% of all inputs to the fSR are glutamate-IR, indicating that glutamatergic neurons may also play an important role in presynaptically modulating the fSR terminals. Anti-GABA ICC confirmed that over 40% of inputs to the fSR are GABA-IR (Judge and Leitch [1999a] J. Comp. Neurol. 407:103-114). Labelling sections with an antioctopamine antibody revealed neurons containing distinctive large, electron-dense granules, which could reliably be used to identify them. Aminergic neurons that modulate the synapse may have very few morphologically recognizable synaptic outputs. Although putative octopaminergic processes were found in close contact to horseradish peroxidase-filled fSR profiles, no morphologically recognizable synaptic inputs to the fSR were evident. Collectively, these data suggest that most inputs to the fSR are from either glutamatergic or GABAergic neurons.
Geographic variation in the evolution and coevolution of a tritrophic interaction.	The geographic mosaic theory of coevolution predicts that geographic variation in species interactions will lead to differing selective pressures on interacting species, producing geographic variation in the traits of interacting species (Thompson 2005). We supported this hypothesis in a study of the geographic variation in the interactions among Eurosta solidaginis and its natural enemies. Eurosta solidaginis is a fly (Diptera: Tephritidae) that induces galls on subspecies of tall goldenrod, Solidago altissima altissima and S. a. gilvocanescens. We measured selection on E. solidaginis gall size and shape in the prairie and forest biomes in Minnesota and North Dakota over an 11-year period. Galls were larger and more spherical in the prairie than in the forest. We supported the hypothesis that the divergence in gall morphology in the two biomes is due to different selection regimes exerted by natural enemies of E. solidaginis. Each natural enemy exerted similar selection on gall diameter in both biomes, but differences in the frequency of natural enemy attack created strong differences in overall selection between the prairie and forest. Bird predation increased with gall diameter, creating selection for smaller-diameter galls. A parasitic wasp, Eurytoma gigantea, and Mordellistena convicta, an inquiline beetle, both caused higher E. solidaginis mortality in smaller galls, exerting selection for increased gall diameter. In the forest there was stabilizing selection on gall diameter due to a combination of bird predation on larvae in large galls, and M. convicta- and E. gigantea-induced mortality on larvae in small galls. In the prairie there was directional selection for larger galls due to M. convicta and E. gigantea mortality on larvae in small galls. Mordellistena convicta-induced mortality was consistently higher in the prairie than in the forest, whereas there was no significant difference in E. gigantea-induced mortality between biomes. Bird predation was nonexistent in the prairie so the selection against large galls found in the forest was absent. We supported the hypothesis that natural enemies of E. solidaginis exerted selection for spherical galls in both biomes. In the prairie M. convicta exerts stabilizing selection to maintain spherical galls. In the forest there was directional selection for more spherical galls. Eurytoma gigantea exerted selection on gall shape in the forest in a complex manner that varied among years. We also supported the hypothesis that E. gigantea is coevolving with E. solidaginis. The parasitoid had significantly longer ovipositors in the prairie than in the forest, indicating the possibility that it has evolved in response to selection to reach larvae in the larger-diameter prairie galls.
Perpetuation of muscle fibers after removal of stretch in the Japanese quail.	Stretch-overload has been shown to increase muscle mass in the anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) of the adult quail by increasing both fiber size and number, but it is not known whether the new muscle fibers or fiber size is maintained after removal of the stretch stimulus. A weight was added to the right wing of 40 adult quail while the left wing in each bird served as an intra-animal control. The weight was removed after 30 days of stretch, and terminal experiments were conducted 0, 30, 60, or 90 days thereafter. Average slow beta-fiber area increased by 53.4 +/- 17.5% (SE) after 30 days of stretch, but it was not different from control area by 30 days poststretch removal. Total fiber number was determined after nitric acid digestion of connective tissue. It increased by 41.3 +/- 2.3% after 30 days of stretch, but it was 28.5 +/- 5.2% greater than control after unweighting for 30-90 days. Thus, once the overload was removed, fiber number returned to control levels more slowly than fiber mass or volume. The data suggest that mechanisms that downregulate fiber number and fiber size may differ in the ALD of the Japanese quail.
Molecular basis of adaptive shift in body size in Drosophila melanogaster: functional and sequence analyses of the Dca gene.	Latitudinal body size clines in animals conforming to Bergmann's rule occur on many continents but isolating their underlying genetic basis remains a challenge. In Drosophila melanogaster, the gene Dca accounts for approximately 5-10% of the natural wing size variation (McKechnie SW, Blacket MJ, Song SV, Rako L, Carroll X, Johnson TK, Jensen LT, Lee SF, Wee CW, Hoffmann AA. 2010. A clinally varying promoter polymorphism associated with adaptive variation in wing size in Drosophila. Mol Ecol. 19:775-784). We present here functional evidence that Dca is a negative regulator of wing size. A significant negative latitudinal cline of Dca gene expression was detected in synchronized third instar larvae. In addition, we clarified the evolutionary history of the three most common Dca promoter alleles (Dca237-1, Dca237-2, and Dca247) and showed that the insertion allele (Dca247), whose frequency increases with latitude, is associated with larger wing centroid size and higher average cell number in male flies. Finally, we showed that the overall linkage disequilibrium (LD) was low in the Dca promoter and that the insertion/deletion polymorphism that defines the Dca alleles was in strong LD with two other upstream sites. Our results provide strong support that Dca is a candidate for climatic adaptation in D. melanogaster.
Aneurysmal bone cyst on the carpus of an African collared dove (Streptopelia roseogrisea).	An adult female African collared dove (Streptopelia roseogrisea) was presented for examination of a mass on the medial surface of the left wing. The mass had been present for 2 months but had grown rapidly over the previous 2 weeks. One week after presentation, the mass was surgically excised and the involved alular bone was removed. Results of histologic examination of the mass were consistent with an aneurysmal bone cyst. No underlying factor could be found in this case. The wound healing was uneventful, and no mass recurrence was observed during the following year. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an aneurysmal bone cyst in a columbiform bird.
Endocranial anatomy of the charadriiformes: sensory system variation and the evolution of wing-propelled diving.	Just as skeletal characteristics provide clues regarding behavior of extinct vertebrates, phylogenetically-informed evaluation of endocranial morphology facilitates comparisons among extinct taxa and extant taxa with known behavioral characteristics. Previous research has established that endocranial morphology varies across Aves; however, variation of those systems among closely related species remains largely unexplored. The Charadriiformes (shorebirds and allies) are an ecologically diverse clade with a comparatively rich fossil record, and therefore, are well suited for investigating interspecies variation, and potential links between endocranial morphology, phylogeny, ecology and other life history attributes. Endocranial endocasts were rendered from high resolution X-ray computed tomography data for 17 charadriiforms (15 extant and two flightless extinct species). Evaluation of endocranial character state changes on a phylogeny for Charadriiformes resulted in identification of characters that vary in taxa with distinct feeding and locomotor ecologies. In comparison with all other charadriiforms, stem and crown clade wing-propelled diving Pan-Alcidae displayed compressed semicircular canals, and indistinct occipital sinuses and cerebellar fissures. Flightless wing-propelled divers have relatively smaller brains for their body mass and smaller optic lobes than volant pan-alcids. Observed differences between volant and flightless wing-propelled sister taxa are striking given that flightless pan-alcids continue to rely on the flight stroke for underwater propulsion. Additionally, the brain of the Black Skimmer Rynchops niger, a taxon with a unique feeding ecology that involves continuous forward aerial motion and touch-based prey detection used both at day and night, is discovered to be unlike that of any other sampled charadriiform in having an extremely large wulst as well as a small optic lobe and distinct occipital sinus. Notably, the differences between the Black Skimmer and other charadriiforms are more pronounced than between wing-propelled divers and other charadriiforms. Finally, aspects of endosseous labyrinth morphology are remarkably similar between divers and non-divers, and may deserve further evaluation.
Metronidazole induced DNA damage in somatic cells of Drosophila melanogaster.	The standard version of the wing somatic mutation and recombination test (SMART) in Drosophila melanogaster was employed in order to evaluate the genotoxic potential of metronidazole (MTZ) as a function of exposure concentration. MTZ was administered by chronic feeding of 3-day-old larvae with the parenteral solution at 0, 500, 1000 and 2000 μg/ml until pupation. The marker-heterozygous progeny (mwh+/+flr3) with phenotypically wild-type wings was analyzed. Non significant differences were found between control and each MTZ concentration tested for single small spots (SSS) frequencies. Large single spots (LSS) and twin spots (TS) were significantly increased with the higher dose. MTZ treatments with 1000 and 2000 μg/ml also significantly increased the frequency of Total spots. These findings suggest that MTZ is genotoxic in the present experimental conditions and induces recombinagenesis and/or gene conversion, two major mechanisms that cause loss of heterocigosity and could play an important role in tumorigenesis and carcinogenesis processes. 
Directional non-cell autonomy and the transmission of polarity information by the frizzled gene of Drosophila.	The function of the frizzled (fz) locus is required for the development of a parallel array of bristles and hairs on the adult cuticle of Drosophila melanogaster. Marked fz mitotic clones from five alleles were generated and examined in the wing. Three alleles have a non-cell-autonomous hair polarity phenotype; wild-type cells distal to fz clones produce hairs that have an abnormal polarity. In contrast, fz clones of the other two fz alleles examined do not disrupt the polarity of neighbouring cells. These data suggest that fz has two mutably separate functions in establishing hair polarity on the wing. One function involves the transmittance and/or generation of a polarity signal along the proximal-distal axis of the wing. The second function involves the cellular interpretation of a polarity signal.
Puromycin enhances 20-hydroxyecdysone-induced protein synthesis in wing discs of Drosophila melanogaster.	The effect of cycloheximide and puromycin on 20-hydroxyecdysone-induced protein synthesis in wing discs of Drosophila melanogaster has been studied by one-dimensional and two-dimensional SDS polyacrylamide electrophoresis. It is found that puromycin, but not cycloheximide, when applied simultaneously with the hormone enhanced the hormone-induced synthesis of the 'early' and 'late' proteins. However, when puromycin was applied after hormone treatment, only the 'late' proteins were induced. The possible implication of these observations is discussed.
Intraspecific chick/chick chimaeras: dystrophic somitic mesoderm transplanted to a normal host forms muscles with a dystrophic phenotype.	Intraspecific chick/chick chimaeras were prepared by transplanting thoracic somitic mesoderm from donor chick embryos with hereditary muscular dystrophy to replace extirpated brachial somites of normal host embryos at stage 13 (48-52 h in ovo). Since the wings of unoperated dystrophic embryos exhibit significantly reduced motility between day-10 in ovo (day-10E) to day-15E, this parameter was used as a marker both to verify the viability of the transplant and to assess if the dystrophic phenotype of impaired functional activity is preserved in the mutant wing muscles innervated by brachial nerves of normal embryos. Our motility analyses of the chimaeras confirmed that transplanted thoracic somitic mesoderm gives rise to brachial musculature and that the experimental muscles maintained the inherent dystrophic phenotype.
Development and motor innervation of a distal pair of fast and slow wing muscles in the chick embryo.	The chick wrist muscle ulnimetacarpalis dorsalis (umd) has two heads. Using myosin ATPase and acetylcholinesterase (ACh.E) staining it was shown that one of the heads is composed almost entirely of acid-stable muscle fibres with multiple end plates (slow muscle fibres) and the other of acid-labile fibres with single end plates (fast muscle fibres). The development of the muscle was traced from E7 (Stage 32-33) when it is a relatively homogeneous mass, to E18. The two heads of the muscle are first distinguishable, by ATPase staining, at E8 (Stage 33-34) prior to their cleaving. Both heads of the muscle are innervated by motoneurons positioned laterally in the lateral motor column in spinal segments 15 and 16. There is no observable difference in the positions of the motoneuron pools to the two heads. At E18 the motoneurons innervating the fast head tend to be slightly larger than those innervating the slow head.
Time course of hypertrophic adaptations of the anterior latissimus dorsi muscle to stretch overload in aged Japanese quail.	The purpose of this study was to determine if aged Japanese quail demonstrated an altered time course of change in the morphology of the anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscle during the first two weeks of hypertrophy induced by stretch overload. The left wing of adult (12 weeks of age) and aged (90 weeks of age) birds were weighted with 10% of their body weight; the right wing served as the intra-animal control. Thirteen to sixteen birds from each age group were killed after 7 and 14 days of stretch overload. Total fiber number was quantified by counting all the fibers in a transverse section from the mid-belly of the ALD muscle. The aged ALD retained the ability to increase the mass and total fiber number of the stretched ALD after 7 (82%, 16%) and 14 (102%, 19%) days of stretch overload. However, there was a main effect of age on the capacity to increase muscle mass and total fiber number after stretch overload. These results suggest that aging diminishes the increase and alters the time course of adaptation in fiber number and myofibrillar mass of the stretch overloaded ALD during the first two weeks of stretch overload.
Effect of temperature on the wing length-body weight relationship in Anopheles quadrimaculatus.	The effect of temperature on the relationship between wing length and body weight in a cohort of Anopheles quadrimaculatus was analyzed in a laboratory experiment. Mosquitoes reared at 23 degrees C were heavier and had longer wings than did those reared at 28 degrees C. In addition, even after differences in body weight were removed statistically, mosquitoes raised at 23 degrees C had longer wings than did those at 28 degrees C. The concordance of these results with those of a previous photoperiod study suggests that temperature and photoperiod experienced during development have some similar effects on the morphology of An. quadrimaculatus.
Relationship between benzo(a)pyrene-DNA adducts and somatic mutation and recombination in Drosophila melanogaster.	The evaluation of the relationship between the dose to DNA of a mutagen/carcinogen and in vivo somatic cell mutagenesis may provide information on the mechanisms leading to induced mutational events. This can be achieved, for example, by coupling test systems that permit the detection of somatic mutation and recombination on the basis of phenotypic changes in cuticular structures of Drosophila melanogaster, with methods for the quantitation of carcinogen-DNA adducts such as the 32P-postlabeling technique. In this article, we evaluate the quantitative relationship between BaP-DNA adduct formation, determined by 32P-postlabeling, and the induction of mutant cells in the wing marker version of the somatic mutation and recombination test (SMART) in Drosophila melanogaster. The total single clones in the trans-heterozygous mwh/flr3 flies show a linear relationship with the BaP-DNA adduct levels, suggesting a single hit mechanism for the genetic damage giving rise to this type of clones. In contrast, the twin clones (which are of recombinational origin) display a linear-quadratic relationship with the adduct levels, suggesting that multiple hits may be involved in generating these clones. The total single clones in the mwh/TM3, Ser flies (in which mitotic recombination is suppressed) show a logarithmic relationship with the adduct levels. The discussion of these data in terms of the pathways that may be involved in the repair of the BaP-DNA adducts leads to the suggestion that in Drosophila melanogaster the repair of Bap metabolite-DNA adducts in somatic cells may proceed, in large part, via post-replicative recombinational repair.
Role of satellite cells in altering myosin expression during avian skeletal muscle hypertrophy.	This study examined whether satellite cells express an embryonic isoform of myosin upon fusion with hypertrophying muscle fibers. Anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscle hypertrophy was induced in adult chickens by weighting one wing. One and 7 days of wing-weighting produced significant increases in ALD muscle wet weight and in the number of mature fibers expressing ventricular-like embryonic (V-EMB) myosin. V-EMB myosin expression could be an event during regeneration of fibers injured by overload or part of the hypertrophy process itself. Although there was an increase in both the number of damaged fibers and the number of mature fibers expressing embryonic myosin after wing-weighting, results from this study suggest that these two events were not necessarily related. The apparent health of fibers expressing V-EMB myosin and the lack of correlation between the numbers of damaged and V-EMB myosin positive fibers (r = 0.20) suggest that embryonic myosin expression in mature fibers was likely a feature of the hypertrophy process itself. The appearance of V-EMB myosin in mature fibers 1 day after wing-weighting suggests that the change in myosin expression did not involve satellite cells since 24 hr is too short a time to permit more than limited satellite cell fusion. The relationship between satellite cells and embryonic myosin expression was examined more closely by labeling dividing satellite cells and their progeny with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine, and then colocalizing labeled myofiber nuclei and embryonic myosin in consecutive transverse sections of hypertrophied ALD muscle. One week of wing-weighting resulted in marked increases in myofiber nuclear labeling index and myofiber nuclear density compared to contralateral control. V-EMB myosin was not expressed uniformly throughout individual fibers, but rather in discrete regions of varying length. Many V-EMB myosin positive regions had a higher labeled nuclear density than V-EMB myosin negative regions indicating that V-EMB myosin expression was associated with an accumulation of satellite cell progeny in a restricted area. However, it was also clear that satellite cell progeny were not the sole source of V-EMB myosin since labeled nuclei were completely absent from 41% of the V-EMB positive regions. Furthermore, the presence of new nuclei did not result in obligatory expression of embryonic myosin because many V-EMB negative regions had a high labeled nuclear density. Thus, recently incorporated nuclei arising by satellite cell division are implicated as one, but not the sole source of embryonic myosin in hypertrophying muscle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Relationship between intracellular pH, extracellular pH, and ventilation during dilution acidosis.	Previous experiments showed that acute hyperosmolality results in an extracellular acidosis that does not stimulate respiratory compensation (C.E. Kasserra, D. R. Jones, and M. R. Hughes. Respir. Physiol. 85: 383-393, 1991). The data suggested that development of the extracellular dilution acidosis would also result in a concomitant intracellular contraction alkalosis. The effects of acute hyperosmolality and lactacidosis on systemic intracellular pH (pHi) were studied in the conscious Pekin duck in an effort to separate the effects of pHi and extracellular pH (pHe) on ventilatory control. Brain pH was also measured during systemic hyperosmolality to determine the relationship between blood and brain pHi. Hyperosmolality caused a concurrent extracellular acidosis and intracellular alkalosis in pectoral muscle, whereas lactic acid infusion decreased both pHe and pHi. Ventilation was stimulated only during lactacidosis and did not change during hyperosmolality. Brain pHi did not show a consistent significant increase in response to systemic hyperosmolality over 1 h but did show a trend toward an alkalosis. Measurement of high-energy phosphate metabolites (phosphocreatine, ATP, and Pi) indicated an increase of metabolic rate during hyperosmolality. With the assumption that similar pHi changes were occurring in chemoreceptive cells, the results suggest that ventilation was responding to pHi changes and that much of the depressive response to acute hyperosmotic disturbance was peripherally generated.
Genes expressed during the differentiation of the pupal wings are also transiently expressed during the larval moult in Bombyx mori.	By a differential screening of cDNA libraries made with RNAs present in differentiating imaginal wing discs of Bombyx mori, we have isolated clones whose expression is dramatically modified during the formation of the pupal wings. The RNAs corresponding to all but one of these clones are also transiently accumulated in the wing primordia during the last larvo-larval moult and in response to 20-hydroxyecdysone injections. If the injections are made to juvenilized larvae the expression of the same genes is stimulated but the range of the stimulation is reduced. It is suggested that in Bombyx, cells of the wings reach the pupal stage of differentiation by steps corresponding to the phases during which high levels of ecdysteroids are present.
Population dynamics of the response of the genomic pattern of the mobile genetic element Dm412 in Drosophila on selection for a quantitative trait]	In an isogenic line of Drosophila melanogaster carrying the Mendelian mutation radius incompletus, selection for the total length of two segments of the disrupted longitudinal wing vein was conducted. After gamma-irradiation at a dose of 13 Gy, positive and negative truncation selection became highly effective and was completed in 50 generations. The pattern of mobile genetic element Dm412 was almost completely fixed in the course of selection. In the positive direction of selection, fixations of mobile genetic element (MGE) sites exceeded losses; in the negative direction, this relationship was reversed. The number of MGE sites in the pattern increased from 23 to 33 and to 26 in the positive and negative directions, respectively. The mean heterozygosity of MGE sites decreased respectively ten and six times. The dynamics of some sites (6F, 43B, 66A, 69E, and others) corresponded to that expected with an adaptive response to selection. Two out of these sites (43B and 66A) were previously assigned to hot sites of Dm412 transposition induced by heat shock. Fixation and loss of sites continued on average for tens of generations. Four hypotheses describe the relationship between patterns of polygenes and MGE in the context of explanation of the above facts: (1) genetic drift; (2) the linkage of MGE and polygenes without modification of the latter (hitchhiking); (3) the linkage and modifying effect of MGE on polygenes linked with them; (4) the selection of the "champion" pattern of polygenes and a random or adaptive MGE pattern linked with it. Hypotheses 1 and 2 are unlikely, hypothesis 3 is possible in the case of other selection modes, whereas hypothesis 4 seems to be most plausible.
The relative expression amounts of apterous and its co-factor dLdb/Chip are critical for dorso-ventral compartmentalization in the Drosophila wing.	Dorso-ventral axis formation in the Drosophila wing requires the localized accumulation of the Apterous LIM/homeodomain protein (Ap) in dorsal cells. Here we report that dLdb/Chip encodes a LIM-binding cofactor that controls Ap activity. Both lack and excess of dLdb/Chip function cause the same phenotype as apterous (ap) lack of function; i.e. dorsal to ventral transformations, generation of new wing margins, and wing outgrowths. These results indicate that the normal function of Ap in dorso-ventral compartmentalization requires the correct amount of the DLDB/CHIP co-factor, and suggest that the Ap and DLDB/CHIP proteins form a multimeric functional complex. In support of this model, we show that the dLdb/Chip excess-of-function phenotypes can be rescued by ap overexpression.
