In vivo analysis of the domains of yeast Rvs167p suggests Rvs167p function is mediated through multiple protein interactions.	Morphological changes during cell division in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are controlled by cell-cycle regulators. The Pcl-Pho85p kinase complex has been implicated in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton at least in part through Rvs167p. Rvs167p consists of three domains called BAR, GPA, and SH3. Using a two-hybrid assay, we demonstrated that each region of Rvs167p participates in protein-protein interactions: the BAR domain bound the BAR domain of another Rvs167p protein and that of Rvs161p, the GPA region bound Pcl2p, and the SH3 domain bound Abp1p. We identified Rvs167p as a Las17p/Bee1p-interacting protein in a two-hybrid screen and showed that Las17p/Bee1p bound the SH3 domain of Rvs167p. We tested the extent to which the Rvs167p protein domains rescued phenotypes associated with deletion of RVS167: salt sensitivity, random budding, and endocytosis and sporulation defects. The BAR domain was sufficient for full or partial rescue of all rvs167 mutant phenotypes tested but not required for the sporulation defect for which the SH3 domain was also sufficient. Overexpression of Rvs167p inhibits cell growth. The BAR domain was essential for this inhibition and the SH3 domain had only a minor effect. Rvs167p may link the cell cycle regulator Pcl-Pho85p kinase and the actin cytoskeleton. We propose that Rvs167p is activated by phosphorylation in its GPA region by the Pcl-Pho85p kinase. Upon activation, Rvs167p enters a multiprotein complex, making critical contacts in its BAR domain and redundant or minor contacts with its SH3 domain.
The thrombocytopenia of Wiskott Aldrich syndrome is not related to a defect in proplatelet formation.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked hereditary disease characterized by thrombocytopenia with small platelet size, eczema, and increased susceptibility to infections. The gene responsible for WAS was recently cloned. Although the precise function of WAS protein (WASP) is unknown, it appears to play a critical role in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization. The platelet defect, resulting in thombocytopenia and small platelet size, is a consistent finding in patients with mutations in the WASP gene. However, its exact mechanism is unknown. Regarding WASP function in cytoskeletal organization, we investigated whether these platelet abnormalities could be due to a defect in proplatelet formation or in megakaryocyte (MK) migration. CD34(+) cells were isolated from blood and/or marrow of 14 WAS patients and five patients with hereditary X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) and cultured in serum-free liquid medium containing recombinant human Mpl-L (PEG-rHuMGDF) and stem-cell factor (SCF) to study in vitro megakaryocytopoiesis. In all cases, under an inverted microscope, normal MK differentiation and proplatelet formation were observed. At the ultrastructural level, there was also no abnormality in MK maturation, and normal filamentous MK were present. Moreover, the in vitro produced platelets had a normal size, while peripheral blood platelets of the same patients exhibited an abnormally small size. However, despite this normal platelet production, we observed that F-actin distribution was abnormal in MKs from WAS patients. Indeed, F-actin was regularly and linearly distributed under the cytoplasmic membrane in normal MKs, but it was found concentrated in the center of the WAS MKs. After adhesion, normal MKs extended very long filopodia in which WASP could be detected. In contrast, MKs from WAS patients showed shorter and less numerous filopodia. However, despite this abnormal filopodia formation, MKs from WAS patients normally migrated in response to stroma-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha), and actin normally polymerized after SDF-1alpha or thrombin stimulation. These results suggest that the platelet defect in WAS patients is not due to abnormal platelet production, but instead to cytoskeletal changes occuring in platelets during circulation.
The sorting nexin, DSH3PX1, connects the axonal guidance receptor, Dscam, to the actin cytoskeleton.	Dock, an adaptor protein that functions in Drosophila axonal guidance, consists of three tandem Src homology 3 (SH3) domains preceding an SH2 domain. To develop a better understanding of axonal guidance at the molecular level, we used the SH2 domain of Dock to purify a protein complex from fly S2 cells. Five proteins were obtained in pure form from this protein complex. The largest protein in the complex was identified as Dscam (Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule), which was subsequently shown to play a key role in directing neurons of the fly embryo to correct positions within the nervous system (Schmucker, D., Clemens, J. C., Shu, H., Worby, C. A., Xiao, J., Muda, M., Dixon, J. E., and Zipursky, S. L. (2000) Cell 101, 671-684). The smallest protein in this complex (p63) has now been identified. We have named p63 DSH3PX1 because it appears to be the Drosophila orthologue of the human protein known as SH3PX1. DSH3PX1 is comprised of an NH(2)-terminal SH3 domain, an internal PHOX homology (PX) domain, and a carboxyl-terminal coiled-coil region. Because of its PX domain, DSH3PX1 is considered to be a member of a growing family of proteins known collectively as sorting nexins, some of which have been shown to be involved in vesicular trafficking. We demonstrate that DSH3PX1 immunoprecipitates with Dock and Dscam from S2 cell extracts. The domains responsible for the in vitro interaction between DSH3PX1 and Dock were also identified. We further show that DSH3PX1 interacts with the Drosophila orthologue of Wasp, a protein component of actin polymerization machinery, and that DSH3PX1 co-immunoprecipitates with AP-50, the clathrin-coat adapter protein. This evidence places DSH3PX1 in a complex linking cell surface receptors like Dscam to proteins involved in cytoskeletal rearrangements and/or receptor trafficking.
The WASp-like protein scar regulates macropinocytosis, phagocytosis and endosomal membrane flow in Dictyostelium.	Scar, a member of the WASp protein family, was discovered in Dictyostelium discoideum during a genetic screen for second-site mutations that suppressed a developmental defect. Disruption of the scar gene reduced the levels of cellular F-actin by 50%. To investigate the role of Scar in endocytosis, phagocytosis and endocytic membrane trafficking, processes that depend on actin polymerization, we have analyzed a Dictyostelium cell line that is genetically null for Scar. Rates of fluid phase macropinocytosis and phagocytosis are significantly reduced in the scar- cell-line. In addition, exocytosis of fluid phase is delayed in these cells and movement of fluid phase from lysosomes to post-lysosomes is also delayed. Inhibition of actin polymerization with cytochalasin A resulted in similar phenotypes, suggesting that Scar-mediated polymerization of the actin cytoskeleton was important in the regulation of these processes. Supporting this conclusion, fluorescence microscopy revealed that some endo-lysosomes were ringed with F-actin in control cells but no F-actin was detected associated with endo-lysosomes in Scar null cells. Disruption of the two genes encoding the actin monomer sequestering protein profilin in wild-type cells causes defects in the rate of pinocytosis and fluid phase efflux. Consistent with a predicted physical interaction between Scar and profilin, disrupting the scar gene in the profilin null background results in greater decreases in the rate of fluid phase internalization and fluid phase release compared to either mutant alone. Taken together, these data support a model in which Scar and profilin functionally interact to regulate internalization of fluid and particles and later steps in the endosomal pathway, probably through regulation of actin cytoskeleton polymerization.
WASP and N-WASP in human platelets differ in sensitivity to protease calpain.	Mutations of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) underlie the severe thrombocytopenia and immunodeficiency of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. WASP, a specific blood cell protein, and its close homologue, the broadly distributed N-WASP, function in dynamic actin polymerization processes. Here it is demonstrated that N-WASP is expressed along with WASP, albeit at low levels, in human blood cells. The presence of approximately 160 nmol/L rapidly acting N-WASP molecules may explain the normal capacity of WASP-negative patient platelets for early agonist-induced aggregation and filopodia formation. Ex vivo experiments revealed a significant difference between WASP and N-WASP in sensitivity to calpain, the Ca++-dependent protease activated in agonist-stimulated platelets. Through the use of a series of calpain-containing broken cell systems, it is shown that WASP is cleaved in a Ca++-dependent reaction inhibitable by calpeptin and E64d and that N-WASP is not cleaved, suggesting that the cleavage of WASP by calpain functions in normal platelets as part of a Ca++-dependent switch mechanism that terminates the surface projection phase of blood cell activation processes.
The Arp2/3 complex: a central regulator of the actin cytoskeleton.	In recent years the Arp2/3 complex has emerged as a central regulator of actin dynamics, assembling and cross-linking actin filaments to produce a diverse array of cellular structures. Here I discuss our current state of knowledge about this actin-remodelling machine. The predicted structure of the Arp2/3 complex can be directly correlated with its ability to nucleate, cap and cross-link actin filaments. A growing family of Arp2/3 complex activators such as the WASP family, type I myosins, and the newly identified activators cortactin and Abplp tightly regulate this activity within the cell. Localised activation of the Arp2/3 complex produces structures such as lamellipodia or actin patches via a process termed dendritic nucleation. Furthermore, several pathogenic microorganisms have evolved strategies to 'hijack' the Arp2/3 complex to their own advantage. Finally, I discuss some of the questions which remain unanswered about this fascinating complex.
Efficient antigen presentation of soluble, but not particulate, antigen in the absence of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.	B cells and dendritic cells, lacking functional Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP), have aberrant formation of membrane protrusions. We hypothesized that protrusions may play a role in antigen presentation, and consequently, that impaired antigen presentation may be an underlying factor of the immune deficiency in patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. In this paper, we investigated the antigen presentation capacity of B cells and dendritic cells from WASP knockout mice, using soluble and particulate antigen, to CD4+ T cells from T-cell receptor transgenic DO11.10 mice. As antigen we used soluble ovalbumin (OVA), a peptide thereof (amino acids 323-339) or bacteria expressing OVA. We found that WASP-deficient B cells and dendritic cells efficiently processed and presented soluble OVA protein as well as its peptide in vitro, inducing proliferation and cytokine production from CD4+ T cells. Antigen presentation of soluble protein was efficient also in vivo, because immunization of WASP-deficient mice with OVA elicited proliferation of transferred, fluorescent-labelled, CD4+ T cells. Although we could detect uptake of bacteria in dendritic cells, processing and presentation of bacterial-expressed OVA was impaired in WASP-deficient dendritic cells. In conclusion, our data suggest that WASP is not needed for processing and presentation of soluble antigen, but that efficient presentation of particulate antigen require WASP.
Negative regulation of yeast WASp by two SH3 domain-containing proteins.	WASp family proteins promote actin filament assembly by activating Arp2/3 complex and are regulated spatially and temporally to assemble specialized actin structures used in diverse cellular processes. Some WASp family members are autoinhibited until bound by activating ligands; however, regulation of the budding yeast WASp homolog (Las17/Bee1) has not yet been explored.
Regulation of the yeast amphiphysin homologue Rvs167p by phosphorylation.	The yeast amphiphysin homologue Rvs167p plays a role in regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and sporulation. Rvs167p is a phosphoprotein in vegetatively growing cells and shows increased phosphorylation upon treatment with mating pheromone. Previous work has shown that Rvs167p can be phosphorylated in vitro by the cyclin-dependent kinase Pho85p complexed with its cyclin Pcl2p. Using chymotryptic phosphopeptide mapping, we have identified the sites on which Rvs167p is phosphorylated in vitro by Pcl2p-Pho85p. We have shown that these same sites are phosphorylated in vivo during vegetative growth and that phosphorylation at two of these sites is Pcl-Pho85p dependent. In cells treated with mating pheromone, the MAP kinase Fus3p is needed for full phosphorylation of Rvs167p. Functional genomics and genetics experiments revealed that mutation of other actin cytoskeleton genes compromises growth of a strain in which phosphorylation of Rvs167p is blocked by mutation. Phosphorylation of Rvs167p inhibits its interaction in vitro with Las17p, an activator of the Arp2/3 complex, as well as with a novel protein, Ymr192p. Our results suggest that phosphorylation of Rvs167p by a cyclin-dependent kinase and by a MAP kinase is an important mechanism for regulating protein complexes involved in actin cytoskeleton function.
Impaired natural and CD16-mediated NK cell cytotoxicity in patients with WAS and XLT: ability of IL-2 to correct NK cell functional defect.	In this study we show that Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp), a critical regulator of actin cytoskeleton that belongs to the Scar/WAVE family, plays a crucial role in the control of natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. Analysis of NK cell numbers and cytotoxic activity in patients carrying different mutations in the WASP coding gene indicated that although the percentage of NK cells was normal or increased, natural cytotoxicity and antibody-mediated NK cell cytotoxicity were inhibited in all patients with the classical WAS phenotype and in most patients carrying mutations associated with the X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) phenotype. The inhibition of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was associated with the reduced ability of WAS and XLT NK cells to form conjugates with susceptible target cells and to accumulate F-actin on binding. Treatment with interleukin-2 (IL-2) corrected the functional defects of NK cells by affecting their ability to bind to sensitive target cells and to accumulate F-actin. In addition, we provide information on the molecular mechanisms that control WASp function, demonstrating that binding of NK cells to sensitive targets or triggering through CD16 by means of reverse antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) rapidly activates Cdc42. We also found that WASp undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation upon CD16 or beta2-integrin engagement on NK cells.
What came first: PKCtheta or the immune synapse?	Stimulation of T cells by peptide-presenting antigen-presenting cells (APCs) induces formation of a highly organized complex of receptors, signaling molecules and cytoskeleton components at the immune synapse (IS), the contact site between T cells and APCs. Conjugate formation between T cells and APCs initiates the formation of the IS. After this event, micrometer-scale molecular movements occur in the T cell plasma membrane and the actin cytoskeleton undergoes reorganization. Our current knowledge suggests that formation of the IS is an essential step during T cell activation. This is probably related to the proper localization of certain proteins in specific compartments. One of these proteins is protein kinase Ctheta (PKCtheta), which is absolutely required for T cell activation. During the last years we have made great advances in understanding the function and targets of this kinase, and recent reviews have summarized these findings. In contrast, we do not know the exact mechanism that activates PKCtheta after TCR engagement and the role of PKCtheta activation in the formation of the IS. In this review I analyze the mechanism of the translocation of PKCtheta and discuss the function of PKCtheta in the formation of the IS and, vice versa, the role of the IS in the translocation of PKCtheta.
A two-state allosteric model for autoinhibition rationalizes WASP signal integration and targeting.	Remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton is controlled by signaling pathways that include the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP). WASP is regulated by autoinhibition, and the intramolecular contacts that inactivate the protein can be relieved through binding to the Rho-family GTPase Cdc42. Here, we show that the allosteric regulation of WASP can be quantitatively described by a two-state equilibrium between an active, largely unfolded conformation that is able to stimulate the Arp2/3 complex, and an inactive, folded conformation. The model is parameterized by the stability of WASP against unfolding and by the Cdc42 affinities of WASP constructs that mimic the unfolded and folded conformations. The model is consistent with NMR spectra of GTPase-bound WASP, and accurately predicts changes of amide hydrogen exchange behavior and Cdc42 affinity as a function of WASP stability. The results provide a thermodynamic rationale for the GTPase-independent recruitment of WASP and other autoinhibited effectors to their sites of activity. They also explain how basal activity is suppressed and confirm that WASP needs to integrate multiple cooperative inputs for maximal activation. Our analysis suggests that, in general, simple modulation of a two-state equilibrium may determine several regulatory functions, allowing the generation of complex signaling behavior in vivo.
Polarized hyphal growth in Candida albicans requires the Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome protein homolog Wal1p.	The yeast-to-hypha transition is a key feature in the cell biology of the dimorphic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans. Reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton is required for this dimorphic switch in Candida. We show that C. albicans WAL1 mutants with both copies of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) homolog deleted do not form hyphae under all inducing conditions tested. Growth of the wild-type and wal1 mutant strains was monitored by in vivo time-lapse microscopy both during yeast-like growth and under hypha-inducing conditions. Isotropic bud growth produced round wal1 cells and unusual mother cell growth. Defects in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton resulted in the random localization of actin patches. Furthermore, wal1 cells exhibited defects in the endocytosis of the lipophilic dye FM4-64, contained increased numbers of vacuoles compared to the wild type, and showed defects in bud site selection. Under hypha-inducing conditions wal1 cells were able to initiate polarized morphogenesis, which, however, resulted in the formation of pseudohyphal cells. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged Wal1p showed patch-like localization in emerging daughter cells during the yeast growth phase and at the hyphal tips under hypha-inducing conditions. Wal1p-GFP localization largely overlapped with that of actin. Our results demonstrate that Wal1p is required for the organization of the actin cytoskeleton and hyphal morphogenesis in C. albicans as well as for endocytosis and vacuole morphology.
Antagonistic cross-talk between Rac and Cdc42 GTPases regulates generation of reactive oxygen species.	Cross-talk between Rho GTPase family members (Rho, Rac, and Cdc42) plays important roles in modulating and coordinating downstream cellular responses resulting from Rho GTPase signaling. The NADPH oxidase of phagocytes and nonphagocytic cells is a Rac GTPase-regulated system that generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) for the purposes of innate immunity and intracellular signaling. We recently demonstrated that NADPH oxidase activation involves sequential interactions between Rac and the flavocytochrome b(558) and p67(phox) oxidase components to regulate electron transfer from NADPH to molecular oxygen. Here we identify an antagonistic interaction between Rac and the closely related GTPase Cdc42 at the level of flavocytochrome b(558) that regulates the formation of ROS. Cdc42 is unable to stimulate ROS formation by NADPH oxidase, but Cdc42, like Rac1 and Rac2, was able to specifically bind to flavocytochrome b(558) in vitro. Cdc42 acted as a competitive inhibitor of Rac1- and Rac2-mediated ROS formation in a recombinant cell-free oxidase system. Inhibition was dependent on the Cdc42 insert domain but not the Switch I region. Transient expression of Cdc42Q61L inhibited ROS formation induced by constitutively active Rac1 in an NADPH oxidase-expressing Cos7 cell line. Inhibition of Cdc42 activity by transduction of the Cdc42-binding domain of Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome protein into human neutrophils resulted in an enhanced fMetLeuPhe-induced oxidative response, consistent with inhibitory cross-talk between Rac and Cdc42 in activated neutrophils. We propose here a novel antagonism between Rac and Cdc42 GTPases at the level of the Nox proteins that modulates the generation of ROS used for host defense, cell signaling, and transformation.
Cutting edge: selective requirement for the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein in cytokine, but not chemokine, secretion by CD4+ T cells.	The mechanism of cytokine secretion is not well understood, but cytokines appear to be synthesized and released in a polarized fashion toward an Ag-specific target cell. In this study, we demonstrate that the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) is an essential component of the cytokine secretory pathway in CD4(+) T cells. Murine WASp-deficient CD4(+) T cells fail to polarize cytokines toward a target and show an unexpected and striking block in cytokine secretion. In contrast, chemokine secretion and trafficking of plasma membrane proteins, transported via the constitutive secretory pathway, are unaffected by the lack of WASp. These results suggest that CD4(+) T cell cytokines require a specialized, WASp-dependent pathway for cellular traffic and/or vesicle release that is distinct from that required for chemokine release. We propose that the use of different secretory pathways for cytokines and chemokines enables CD4(+) T cell activity to be further fine-tuned to serve specialized effector functions.
Mutations of the Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome Protein (WASP): hotspots, effect on transcription, and translation and phenotype/genotype correlation.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked recessive immune deficiency disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia, small platelet size, eczema, recurrent infections, and increased risk of autoimmune disorders and malignancies. X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) is an allelic variant of WAS which presents with a milder phenotype, generally limited to thrombocytopenia. WAS and XLT are caused by mutations of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) gene which encodes a 502-amino acid protein, named WASP. WASP is thought to play a role in actin cytoskeleton organization and cell signaling. Here, we report the identification of 141 unique mutations, 71 not previously reported, from 227 WAS/XLT families with a total of 262 affected members. When possible we studied the effects of these mutations on transcription, RNA splicing, and protein expression. By analyzing a large number of patients with WAS/XLT at the molecular level we identified 5 mutational hotspots in the WASP gene and have been able to establish a strong association between genotype and phenotype.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein deficiency leads to reduced B-cell adhesion, migration, and homing, and a delayed humoral immune response.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) is mutated in the severe immunodeficiency disease Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS). The function of B cells and the physiologic alterations in WAS remain unclear. We show that B cells from WAS patients exhibited decreased motility and had reduced capacity to migrate, adhere homotypically, and form long protrusions after in vitro culture. WASp-deficient murine B cells also migrated less well to chemokines. Upon antigen challenge, WASp-deficient mice mounted a reduced and delayed humoral immune response to both T-cell-dependent and -independent antigens. This was at least in part due to deficient migration and homing of B cells. In addition, the germinal center reaction was reduced in WASp-deficient mice. Thus, WASp is crucial for optimal B-cell responses and plays a pivotal role in the primary humoral immune response.
Dynamic molecular interactions linking the T cell antigen receptor to the actin cytoskeleton.	T cell receptor (TCR) engagement leads to actin polymerization at the site of T cell contact with antigen-presenting cells. Here we have studied the dynamic activity of proteins involved in regulating actin polymerization in live T cells after activation. Two such adaptor proteins, Nck and the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp), were recruited to the TCR during initial T cell activation, where they colocalized with the tyrosine kinase Zap70. The recruitment of Nck and WASp depended on TCR-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and the LAT and SLP-76 adaptors. Nck and WASp migrated peripherally and accumulated at an actin-rich circumferential ring. Thus, actin polymerization regulated by the TCR begins at the TCR. Molecules recruited to the TCR regulate actin polymerization and this process drives plasma membrane movement and cellular spreading.
Phenotypic perturbation of B cells in the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked immunodeficiency/platelet disease due to mutations of WASP, a cytoskeletal regulatory protein of blood cells. Patients exhibit a range of immune defects generally attributed to defective T-cell function, including poor response to immunization, skewed immunoglobulin isotypes, eczema, recurrent infections, autoimmune disease and increased frequency of malignancies. Here we show a deficit of total B-cells in WAS patients of various ages and identify phenotypic perturbations involving complement receptors and CD27. Whereas B-cells of normal healthy donors are overwhelmingly CD21/CD35-positive, B-cells expressing these receptors are significantly reduced in number in WAS patients, and their paucity may cause suboptimal antigen capture and presentation. The frequencies of IgD(-) and IgG(+) patient B-cells were not different from healthy donors (although absolute numbers were decreased), indicating that isotype switching is occurring. In contrast, the frequency of cells positive for CD27, the marker of post germinal centre B-cells, was significantly decreased even among isotype-switched cells, and B-cells resembling germinal centre progenitors (CD10(+)CD27(-)CD38(bright)) were more frequent in adult patients, suggesting impaired germinal centre maturation/differentiation. The documentation of these phenotypic perturbations and deficit of total cells suggest that defects intrinsic to B-cells contribute to the impaired humoral immunity that characterizes this disease.
Effects of Arp2 and Arp3 nucleotide-binding pocket mutations on Arp2/3 complex function.	Contributions of actin-related proteins (Arp) 2 and 3 nucleotide state to Arp2/3 complex function were tested using nucleotide-binding pocket (NBP) mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. ATP binding by Arp2 and Arp3 was required for full Arp2/3 complex nucleation activity in vitro. Analysis of actin dynamics and endocytosis in mutants demonstrated that nucleotide-bound Arp3 is particularly important for Arp2/3 complex function in vivo. Severity of endocytic defects did not correlate with effects on in vitro nucleation activity, suggesting that a critical Arp2/3 complex function during endocytosis may be structural rather than catalytic. A separate class of Arp2 and Arp3 NBP mutants suppressed phenotypes of mutants defective for actin nucleation. An Arp2 suppressor mutant increased Arp2/3 nucleation activity. Electron microscopy of Arp2/3 complex containing this Arp2 suppressor identified a structural change that also occurs upon Arp2/3 activation by nucleation promoting factors. These data demonstrate the importance of Arp2 and Arp3 nucleotide binding for nucleating activity, and Arp3 nucleotide binding for maintenance of cortical actin cytoskeleton cytoarchitecture.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein regulates nuclear translocation of NFAT2 and NF-kappa B (RelA) independently of its role in filamentous actin polymerization and actin cytoskeletal rearrangement.	Effector functions mediated by NK cells involve cytotoxicity and transcription-dependent production and release of cytokines and chemokines. Although the JAK/STAT pathway mediates lymphokine-induced transcriptional regulation in NK cells, very little is known about transcriptional regulation induced during cell-cell contact. We demonstrate that the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) is an important component for integration of signals leading to nuclear translocation of NFAT2 and NF-kappaB (RelA) during cell-cell contact and NKp46-dependent signaling. This WASp function is independent of its known role in F-actin polymerization and cytoskeletal rearrangement. Absence of WASp results in decreased accumulation of calcineurin, WASp-interacting protein, and molecules upstream of calcium mobilization, i.e., activated ZAP70 and phospholipase C-gamma1, in the disorganized NK cell immune synapse. Production of GM-CSF, but not IFN-gamma, is decreased, while natural cytotoxicity of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome-NK cells is maintained. Our results indicate that WASp independently regulates its dual functions, i.e., actin cytoskeletal remodeling and transcription in NK cells.
WASP deficiency leads to global defects of directed leukocyte migration in vitro and in vivo.	Intact cellular migration is critically important for the induction and regulation of the immune response. The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) regulates surface receptor signaling to the actin cytoskeleton in hematopoietic cells and thus plays a pivotal role in cellular locomotion. WASP deficiency causes the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), characterized by immunodeficiency, thrombocytopenia, and eczema. Cell migration defects may contribute to the pathophysiology of WAS. In this study, we used a variety of in vitro and in vivo assays to comprehensively analyze migration properties of lymphocytes, dendritic cells (DC), and neutrophils from WASP-deficient mice. We provide evidence that WASP-deficient lymphocytes show a marked reduction in tethering in an in vitro flow chamber assay as well as decreased migration of T cells in response to the CC chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19). In vivo, compared with wild-type lymphocytes, WASP-deficient lymphocytes showed significantly impaired homing to Peyer's patches upon adoptive transfer into recipient mice. In addition, bone marrow-derived DC migrated less efficiently in response to CCL19. In vivo studies showed decreased migration of DC from skin to draining lymph nodes in WASP-deficient animals. Finally, we also document decreased neutrophil migration in vitro and in vivo. In summary, our studies suggest that WASP plays an important role in the locomotion of lymphocytes, DC, and granulocytes in vitro and in vivo and thus, reveal a crucial role of WASP in physiological trafficking of various hematopoietic cell lineages. These results further delineate immunological abnormalities in WASP-deficient mice, which will be useful to assess preclinical gene therapy studies.
Structure and function of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.	Mutations of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein can result in highly variable clinical symptoms that affect the hematopoietic/immunologic system. The responsible gene, WASP, has multiple domains, each with unique functions that were only recently fully recognized.
High prevalence of nonsense, frame shift, and splice-site mutations in 16 patients with full-blown Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is a fully penetrant X-linked recessive disorder characterized by immunodeficiency, thrombocytopenia, and severe eczema. WAS is a life-threatening disease, with a poor quality of life and high mortality rate in childhood. The gene responsible for the disease has been localized to the proximal short arm of the X-chromosome and recently isolated through positional cloning and named WAS protein (WASP). We have characterized 17 WAS families. We have developed a rapid, nonradioactive screening protocol for identifying WASP gene alterations in genomic DNA. Our method allows simultaneous evaluation of single strand confirmation polymorphism and heteroduplex formation. We have identified 15 novel mutations that involve single basepair changes, or small insertions or deletions, all of which result in premature stop cordon, frame shift with secondary premature stop codon, or splice site defect. These studies document the considerable heterogeneity of the location of mutations in the WASP gene causing full-blown WAS and show the efficiency and rapidity of a screening approach for mutation identification in WAS that will be useful for carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome and X-linked congenital thrombocytopenia are caused by mutations of the same gene.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked recessive disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia, small platelets, eczema, recurrent infections, and immunodeficiency. Besides the classic WAS phenotype, there is a group of patients with congenital X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) who have small platelets but only transient eczema, if any, and minimal immune deficiency. Because the gene responsible for WAS has been sequenced, it was possible to correlate the WAS phenotypes with WAS gene mutations. Using a fingerprinting screening technique, we determined the approximate location of the mutation in 13 unrelated WAS patients with mild to severe clinical symptoms. Direct sequence analysis of cDNA and genomic DNA obtained from patient-derived cell lines showed 12 unique mutations distributed throughout the WAS gene, including insertions, deletions, and point mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions, termination, exon skipping, or splicing defects. Of 4 unrelated patients with the XLT phenotype, 3 had missense mutations affecting exon 2 and 1 had a splice-site mutation affecting exon 9. Patients with classic WAS had more complex mutations, resulting in termination codons, frameshift, and early termination. These findings provide direct evidence that XLT and WAS are caused by mutations of the same gene and suggest that severe clinical phenotypes are associated with complex mutations.
Studies of the expression of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia, eczema, disorders in cell-mediated and humoral immunity, and a proclivity to lymphoproliferative disease. The gene responsible encodes a 53-kD proline-rich protein of unknown function (WASP). We produced a FLAG-WASP fusion protein that was used to immunize mice and produce mAbs against WASP. Using monoclonal anti-WASP in Western immunoblots, we have determined that WASP is present in the cytoplasmic but not nuclear fraction of normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, in normal human platelets, in T lymphocytes, non-T lymphocytes, and monocytes. The protein is produced in the B cell immunoblastic cell line DS-1, in normal EBV-transformed B cell lines, and in HEL92.1.7, but is barely detectable in MOLT-4 and not detectable in K562. WASP was present in two of four EBV-transformed cell lines from WAS patients. Splenic tissue immunostaining was performed in two patients, and the results correlated with the results of the Western blots. Sequence analysis of WASP cDNA from two patients who produce WASP show mutations causing amino acid substitutions. These studies establish a foundation for further studies aimed at understanding the function of WASP.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: no strict genotype-phenotype correlations but clustering of missense mutations in the amino-terminal part of the WASP gene product.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) gene was found to be mutated in patients presenting with WAS and in patients showing X-linked thrombocytopenia. Mutation analysis in 19 families of German, Swiss and Turkish descent by single-strand conformation polymorphism and sequencing resulted in the detection of seven novel and 10 known mutations. A striking clustering of missense mutations in the first four exons contrasted with a random distribution of nonsense mutations. More than 85% of all known missense mutations were localized in the amino-terminal stretch of the WASP gene product; this region contained a mutational hot spot at codon 86. No genotype-phenotype correlation emerged after a comparison of the identified mutations with the resulting clinical picture for a classical WAS phenotype. A substitution at codon 86 resulted in an extremely variable expression of the disease in a large Swiss family. An extended homology search revealed a distant relationship of this stretch to the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP), which is involved in the maintenance of cyto-architecture by interacting with actin-like filaments.
WAVE, a novel WASP-family protein involved in actin reorganization induced by Rac.	Rac is a Rho-family small GTPase that induces the formation of membrane ruffles. However, it is poorly understood how Rac-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, which is essential for ruffle formation, is regulated. Here we identify a novel Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)-family protein, WASP family Verprolin-homologous protein (WAVE), as a regulator of actin reorganization downstream of Rac. Ectopically expressed WAVE induces the formation of actin filament clusters that overlap with the expressed WAVE itself. In this actin clustering, profilin, a monomeric actin-binding protein that has been suggested to be involved in actin polymerization, was shown to be essential. The expression of a dominant-active Rac mutant induces the translocation of endogenous WAVE from the cytosol to membrane ruffling areas. Furthermore, the co-expression of a deltaVPH WAVE mutant that cannot induce actin reorganization specifically suppresses the ruffle formation induced by Rac, but has no effect on Cdc42-induced actin-microspike formation, a phenomenon that is also known to be dependent on rapid actin reorganization. The deltaVPH WAVE also suppresses membrane-ruffling formation induced by platelet-derived growth factor in Swiss 3T3 cells. Taken together, we conclude that WAVE plays a critical role downstream of Rac in regulating the actin cytoskeleton required for membrane ruffling.
