The thrombocytopenia of Wiskott Aldrich syndrome is not related to a defect in proplatelet formation.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked hereditary disease characterized by thrombocytopenia with small platelet size, eczema, and increased susceptibility to infections. The gene responsible for WAS was recently cloned. Although the precise function of WAS protein (WASP) is unknown, it appears to play a critical role in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization. The platelet defect, resulting in thombocytopenia and small platelet size, is a consistent finding in patients with mutations in the WASP gene. However, its exact mechanism is unknown. Regarding WASP function in cytoskeletal organization, we investigated whether these platelet abnormalities could be due to a defect in proplatelet formation or in megakaryocyte (MK) migration. CD34(+) cells were isolated from blood and/or marrow of 14 WAS patients and five patients with hereditary X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) and cultured in serum-free liquid medium containing recombinant human Mpl-L (PEG-rHuMGDF) and stem-cell factor (SCF) to study in vitro megakaryocytopoiesis. In all cases, under an inverted microscope, normal MK differentiation and proplatelet formation were observed. At the ultrastructural level, there was also no abnormality in MK maturation, and normal filamentous MK were present. Moreover, the in vitro produced platelets had a normal size, while peripheral blood platelets of the same patients exhibited an abnormally small size. However, despite this normal platelet production, we observed that F-actin distribution was abnormal in MKs from WAS patients. Indeed, F-actin was regularly and linearly distributed under the cytoplasmic membrane in normal MKs, but it was found concentrated in the center of the WAS MKs. After adhesion, normal MKs extended very long filopodia in which WASP could be detected. In contrast, MKs from WAS patients showed shorter and less numerous filopodia. However, despite this abnormal filopodia formation, MKs from WAS patients normally migrated in response to stroma-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha), and actin normally polymerized after SDF-1alpha or thrombin stimulation. These results suggest that the platelet defect in WAS patients is not due to abnormal platelet production, but instead to cytoskeletal changes occuring in platelets during circulation.
WASP and N-WASP in human platelets differ in sensitivity to protease calpain.	Mutations of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) underlie the severe thrombocytopenia and immunodeficiency of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. WASP, a specific blood cell protein, and its close homologue, the broadly distributed N-WASP, function in dynamic actin polymerization processes. Here it is demonstrated that N-WASP is expressed along with WASP, albeit at low levels, in human blood cells. The presence of approximately 160 nmol/L rapidly acting N-WASP molecules may explain the normal capacity of WASP-negative patient platelets for early agonist-induced aggregation and filopodia formation. Ex vivo experiments revealed a significant difference between WASP and N-WASP in sensitivity to calpain, the Ca++-dependent protease activated in agonist-stimulated platelets. Through the use of a series of calpain-containing broken cell systems, it is shown that WASP is cleaved in a Ca++-dependent reaction inhibitable by calpeptin and E64d and that N-WASP is not cleaved, suggesting that the cleavage of WASP by calpain functions in normal platelets as part of a Ca++-dependent switch mechanism that terminates the surface projection phase of blood cell activation processes.
WAVE2 deficiency reveals distinct roles in embryogenesis and Rac-mediated actin-based motility.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome related protein WAVE2 is implicated in the regulation of actin-cytoskeletal reorganization downstream of the small Rho GTPase, Rac. We inactivated the WAVE2 gene by gene-targeted mutation to examine its role in murine development and in actin assembly. WAVE2-deficient embryos survived until approximately embryonic day 12.5 and displayed growth retardation and certain morphological defects, including malformations of the ventricles in the developing brain. WAVE2-deficient embryonic stem cells displayed normal proliferation, whereas WAVE2-deficient embryonic fibroblasts exhibited severe growth defects, as well as defective cell motility in response to PDGF, lamellipodium formation and Rac-mediated actin polymerization. These results imply a non-redundant role for WAVE2 in murine embryogenesis and a critical role for WAVE2 in actin-based processes downstream of Rac that are essential for cell movement.
Aberrant O-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis in lymphocytes and platelets from patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked recessive immunodeficiency affecting B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes, and platelets. Previous studies on lymphocytes from WAS patients have revealed that leu-kosialin (CD43), a cell-surface glycoprotein bearing approximately 90 O-linked oligosaccharide chains, shows an aberrant electrophoretic mobility. To determine whether this finding reflects a different pattern of O-linked glycosylation in WAS cells, we have compared healthy individuals and WAS patients with respect to glycosyltransferase activities in T lymphocytes, platelets, and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-immortalized B cell lines. Stimulation of peripheral T cells from normal individuals in vitro with anti-CD3 antibodies and interleukin-2 was associated with a 3-fold increase in UDP-GlcNAc:Gal beta 3GalNAc-R (GlcNAc to GalNAc) beta 6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (core 2 GlcNAc-T) from 0.8 to 2.2 nmol/mg/h. In contrast, peripheral T lymphocytes from WAS patients showed an inversion of this phenotype with high core 2 GlcNAc-T activity in unstimulated cells (2.3 nmol/mg/h) and a 2-3-fold decrease in activity following stimulation. Core 2 GlcNAc-T activity was also three times higher in platelets from WAS patients than in normal platelets. Glycosyltransferase activities were measured in immortalized B cell lines established from WAS and normal subjects by infection with EBV. Core 2 GlcNAc-T was less than 0.4 nmol/mg/h in WAS EBV-B cell lines compared to 2.4 nmol/mg/h in EBV-B cell lines from healthy individuals, In contrast, CMP-SA:SA alpha 2-3Gal beta 1-3GalNAc-R (where SA represents sialyl (sialic acid to GalNAc) alpha 6-sialyltransferase II activity was 2.0 nmol/mg/h in the WAS EBV-B cell and less than .01 nmol/mg/h in EBV-B cell lines derived from normal subjects. Eleven other glycosyltransferase activities were measured and found to be similar in EBV-B cell lines from WAS and normal individuals. Polylactosamine sequences were much reduced in the O-linked oligosaccharides of CD43 from WAS EBV-B cells consistent with decreased core 2 GlcNAc-T activity and expression of core 1 oligosaccharides in the cells. In conclusion, B cells, T cells, and platelets in WAS patients show abnormal expression of two developmentally regulated glycosyltransferases, consistent with the idea that the WAS immunodeficiency is due to a failure of normal lymphocyte maturation.
X-linked thrombocytopenia and thrombocytopathia: attenuated Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. Functional and morphological studies of platelets and lymphocytes.	Detailed studies on the rare disorder X-linked thrombocytopenia showed that it resembles the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) in inheritance, clinical bleeding tendency, platelet morphology, marked thrombocytopenia and microplatelets. The calculated platelet mass was 5% of normal. Functional and biochemical studies indicated qualitatively normal aggregation and release mechanisms, whereas a moderate storage pool defect was present. The classical platelet membrane glycoproteins and lymphocyte sialophorin (CD 43) were normal. The reason for the bleeding tendency was concluded to be deficient hemostatic plug formation resulting from the low platelet mass and a moderate storage pool defect. The only clear distinction from WAS was the normal immunofunctional tests, the moderate tendency to infections and the absence of eczema. We therefore consider the trait as an attenuated form of WAS. That women are affected may indicate a particular variant.
Update of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. From a new case report.	After presenting the case of a male patient who was diagnosed as suffering from the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome at the age of 4 months, we review the main clinical (infections, bleeding and eczema), immunological (deficiency of IgM, normal IgG, elevated IgA and IgE, deficiency of total T lymphocytes, normal T4 levels, decreased levels of T8, diminished response to phytohemagglutinin and partial depletion of the lymphocyte population in biopsies of lymph nodes and spleen) and haematological (thrombocytopenia, dysmegakaryocytosis, decreased half-life and decreased granulation in the protoplasm of megakaryocytes) manifestations of this syndrome. In general, our aim is to carry out an up-to-date review of the syndrome, and to include comments on the diagnostic and therapeutic aspects.
Discrepancy between the clinical and immunologic picture of in vitro diagnosis during transfer factor therapy in a patient with Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome]	The attempt of an interval treatment in a patient affected with Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome with transfer factor between the 6th and 14th month of life had good clinical success initially which coincided with the normalization of in vitro stimulation of the patient's lymphocytes. Only short-term (in vitro) measurable effects could be achieved by the transfer factor. Whereas clinical therapy effects were diminishing from treatment phase to treatment phase, it was possible to observe further positive results in paraclinical findings. It was only MLC reactivity that correlated with the clinical picture. Etiologically, all findings gained speak in favour of a helper cell defect and/or monocyte defect. TF therapy was not repeated because of the findings obtained and the clinical course.
Effect of intravenous gammaglobulin (IVIG) on the platelet count in patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	The ability of IVIG to increase platelet counts in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura suggests its potential usefulness in other disease states characterized by low platelet counts. This possibility was evaluated in nine patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) who received IVIG, at a dose of 400 mg/kg every 4 weeks. The mean platelet count prior to institution of IVIG was 32,000/cumm (range 2,400 to 98,000). Following administration of IVIG, the platelet count ranged between 5,000 and 85,000/cumm. There were no immediate increases in platelet counts after IVIG infusion in any patient who had serial platelet counts. During treatment, patients were not given any routine platelet transfusions for low platelet counts. However, while on IVIG, two patients showed a good response to platelet transfusion prior to surgical procedures. In conclusion, chronic IVIG therapy does not appear to affect platelet counts in patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: detection of carrier state by metabolic stress of platelets.	A stress test has been designed which shows a consistent abnormality in platelets from carriers of the Wiskott-Aldrich-syndrome (W.A.S.) gene. 2-deoxy-D-glucose (D.D.G.), an inhibitor of glycolysis, completely inhibited second-wave adrenaline (epinephrine)-induced aggregation of platelets from 10 W.A.S. carriers, whereas it had no effect on the response of control platelets. Antimycin A (Ant A), an inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation, had no effect on adrenaline-induced platelet aggregation of either carriers or controls. Incubation of control platelets with a combination of Ant A and D.D.G. inhibited aggregation in a way comparable to the effect of D.D.G. alone on carrier cells. Thus, W.A.S. carriers have a defect in platelet metabolism similar to that produced in normal platelets with Ant A. The D.D.G. stress test is a simple reproducible assay for detection of W.A.S. carriers.
Rare hyperimmunoglobulinemia E syndromes]	Total immunoglobulin E levels are very frequently measured, particularly for allergy. Their high levels are ordinarily found in atopy and parasitosis. This article subject is to determine rare diseases where high levels of total immunoglobulin E are found except in classic diseases. These rare hyper-immunoglobulin E syndromes are more often associated with immunologic deficiency more or less intense that lead to viral, fungal and bacterial infections. Buckley syndrome: deep infections due to Staphylococcus aureus, chronic dermatitis. Netherton disease: cutaneous and hair disease, allergic manifestations. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: thrombocytopeny and -pathy, dermatitis. Di-George disease: hypoparathyroidism, infections. Selective deficit of immunoglobulin A: recurrent infections. It is difficult to differentiate between atopic dermatitis and Buckley syndrome and Netherton disease because of eczematiform chronic dermatitis and high-levels of total immunoglobulin E found in all these diseases.
