Involvement of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein family verprolin-homologous protein (WAVE) and Rac1 in the phagocytosis of amyloid-beta(1-42) in rat microglia.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of extracellular amyloid-beta (A beta) fibrils with microglia. Recently, there has been great interest in the microglial phagocytosis of A beta, because the microglial pathway is considered to be one of the A beta clearance pathways in the brain parenchyma. However, the mechanism of microglial phagocytosis of A beta is not fully understood and, thus, was investigated in this study. At one minute after exposure to A beta(1-42) (A beta 42), A beta immunoreactivity was detected at the cell surface of microglia. After 1 h, marked immunoreactivity was observed in the cytosolic vesicles. At 12 h, delayed phagocytosis of fibrillar A beta 42 was also observed with the formation of a large phagocytic cup. The microglial cell shape rapidly changed to an ameboid form during the process of phagocytosis. Although neither neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP) nor WASP interacting SH3 protein (WISH) immunoreactivity was co-localized with filamentous actin (F-actin) distribution, both WASP family verprolin-homologous protein (WAVE) and Rac1 immunoreactivity was co-localized with F-actin in the lamellipodia of phogocytic microglia. These results suggest that WAVE and Rac1 participate in the phagocytosis of A beta 42 by microglia.
Possible involvement of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein family in aberrant neuronal sprouting in Alzheimer's disease.	One of the pathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the formation of dystrophic neurites accompanied by aberrant neuronal sprouting. Although a number of studies have focussed on the formation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the mechanism of neuronal sprouting in AD is not fully understood. The protein levels of neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP), WASP interacting SH3 protein (WISH) and WASP family verprolin-homologous protein (WAVE) were significantly increased in AD brains. In addition, N-WASP, WISH and WAVE were co-localized with filamentous actin in abnormal dendrite-like processes sprouting from staurosporine-treated human SH-SY5Y cells. These results suggest that N-WASP, WISH and WAVE may participate in the neurodegenerative aberrant sprouting in AD neurons.
Cutting edge: selective requirement for the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein in cytokine, but not chemokine, secretion by CD4+ T cells.	The mechanism of cytokine secretion is not well understood, but cytokines appear to be synthesized and released in a polarized fashion toward an Ag-specific target cell. In this study, we demonstrate that the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) is an essential component of the cytokine secretory pathway in CD4(+) T cells. Murine WASp-deficient CD4(+) T cells fail to polarize cytokines toward a target and show an unexpected and striking block in cytokine secretion. In contrast, chemokine secretion and trafficking of plasma membrane proteins, transported via the constitutive secretory pathway, are unaffected by the lack of WASp. These results suggest that CD4(+) T cell cytokines require a specialized, WASp-dependent pathway for cellular traffic and/or vesicle release that is distinct from that required for chemokine release. We propose that the use of different secretory pathways for cytokines and chemokines enables CD4(+) T cell activity to be further fine-tuned to serve specialized effector functions.
Altered O-glycan synthesis in lymphocytes from patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	The only molecular defect reported for the X-linked immunodeficiency Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is the abnormal electrophoretic behavior of the major T lymphocyte sialoglycoprotein CD43. Since the 70 to 80 O-linked carbohydrate chains of CD43 are known to influence markedly its electrophoretic mobility, we analyzed the structure and the biosynthesis of O-glycans of CD43 in lymphocytes from patients with WAS. Immunofluorescence analysis with the carbohydrate dependent anti-CD43 antibody T305 revealed that in 10 out of the 12 WAS patients tested increased numbers of T lymphocytes carry on CD43 an epitope which on normal lymphocytes is expressed only after activation. Other activation antigens were absent from WAS lymphocytes. Western blots of WAS cell lysates displayed a high molecular mass form of CD43 which reacted with the T305 antibody and which could be found on in vivo activated lymphocytes but was absent from normal unstimulated lymphocytes. To examine the O-glycan structures, carbohydrate labeled CD43 was immunoprecipitated and the released oligosaccharides identified. WAS lymphocyte CD43 was found to carry predominantly the branched structure NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3 (NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----4G1cNAc beta 1----6) GalNAcOH whereas normal lymphocytes carry the structure NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3 (NeuNAc alpha 2----6) GalNAcOH. Only after activation NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3 (NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----4GlcNAc beta 1----6) GalNAcOH becomes the principal oligosaccharide on CD43 from normal lymphocytes. Analyzing the six glycosyltransferases involved in the biosynthesis of these O-glycan structures it was found that in WAS lymphocytes high levels of beta 1----6 N-acetyl-glucosaminyl transferase are responsible for the expression of NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3 (NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----4GlcNAc beta 1----6) GalNAcOH on CD43. The gene responsible for WAS has not yet been identified but the results presented in this study suggest that the primary defect in WAS may affect a gene which is involved in the regulation of O-glycosylation.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein-deficient hematopoietic cells can be efficiently mobilized by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein is an essential cytoskeleton regulator found in cells of the hematopoietic lineage and controls the motility of leukocytes. The impact of WAS gene deficiency on the mobilization of hematopoietic progenitor/stem cells in circulation has remained unexplored but information would be pertinent in the context of autologous gene therapy of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. The response to granulocyte-colony stimulating factor mobilization was investigated in a murine WAS knock-out model of the disease, by measuring hematologic parameters, circulation and engraftment of hematopoietic progenitor/stem cells. In the steady-state, adult WAS knock-out mice have B-cell lymphopenia, marked neutrophilia, increased counts of circulating hematopoietic progenitor cells and splenomegaly, presumably caused by the retention of hematopoietic progenitor cells due to high levels of splenic CXCL12. In spite of these anomalies, the administration of granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor mobilizes progenitor/stem cells in WAS knock-out mice to the same level and with the same kinetics as in wild-type control mice. Mobilized peripheral blood cells from WAS knock-out mice can be transduced and are able to engraft into lethally-irradiated hosts reconstituting multiple lineages of cells and providing more effective radio-protection than mobilized cells from wild-type control mice. Surprisingly, the homing and the peripheral blood recovery of B lymphocytes was influenced by the background of the host. Thus, in the absence of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein, effective mobilization is achieved but partial correction may occur as a result of an abnormal hematopoietic environment. 
Major O-glycosylated sialoglycoproteins of human hematopoietic cells: differentiation antigens with poorly understood functions.	All human hematopoietic cells seem to contain a major, heavily O-glycosylated sialoglycoprotein. Glycophorin A is specific for the erythroid lineage of cells, and leukocytes have a major sialoglycoprotein, also called leukosialin or sialophorin. Cell differentiation results in patterns of O-glycosylation in these proteins, which reflect the stage of differentiation within a cell lineage as well as lineage specificity. The altered carbohydrate compositions may influence the interactions of the cells with external ligands. Healthy individuals lacking glycophorin A in their red cells are known, whereas a deficiency of the leukocyte sialoglycoprotein may result in immunological disease. Although little is known about the physiological functions of these proteins, they form interesting models for studies on regulation of glycosylation, biosynthesis of O-glycosylated glycoproteins, and function of cell surface receptors.
