N-WASP inhibitor wiskostatin nonselectively perturbs membrane transport by decreasing cellular ATP levels.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) and WAVE stimulate actin-related protein (Arp)2/3-mediated actin polymerization, leading to diverse downstream effects, including the formation and remodeling of cell surface protrusions, modulation of cell migration, and intracytoplasmic propulsion of organelles and pathogens. Selective inhibitors of individual Arp2/3 activators would enable more exact dissection of WASP- and WAVE-dependent cellular pathways and are potential therapeutic targets for viral pathogenesis. Wiskostatin is a recently described chemical inhibitor that selectively inhibits neuronal WASP (N-WASP)-mediated actin polymerization in vitro. A growing number of recent studies have utilized this drug in vivo to uncover novel cellular functions for N-WASP; however, the selectivity of wiskostatin in intact cells has not been carefully explored. In our studies with this drug, we observed rapid and dose-dependent inhibition of N-WASP-dependent membrane trafficking steps. Additionally, however, we found that addition of wiskostatin inhibited numerous other cellular functions that are not believed to be N-WASP dependent. Further studies revealed that wiskostatin treatment caused a rapid, profound, and irreversible decrease in cellular ATP levels, consistent with its global effects on cell function. Our data caution against the use of this drug as a selective perturbant of N-WASP-dependent actin dynamics in vivo.
N-WASP regulates extension of filopodia and processes by oligodendrocyte progenitors, oligodendrocytes, and Schwann cells-implications for axon ensheathment at myelination.	The molecular mechanisms used by oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), oligodendrocytes (OLs), and Schwann cells (SCs) to advance processes for motility in the developing nervous system and to ensheath axons at myelination are currently not well defined. Here we demonstrate that OPCs, OLs, and SCs express the major proteins involved in actin polymerization-driven protrusion; these key proteins including F-actin, the Arp2/3 complex, neural-Wiskott Aldrich Syndrome protein (N-WASP) and WAVE proteins, and the RhoGTPases Rac and Cdc42 are present at the leading edges of processes being extended by OPCs, OLs, and SCs. We reveal by real-time PCR that OLs and SCs have different dominant WAVE isoforms. Inhibition of the WASP/WAVE protein, N-WASP, with wiskostatin that prevents activation of the Arp2/3 complex, blocks process extension by OPCs and SCs. Inhibition of N-WASP also causes OPC and SC process retraction, which is preceded by retraction of filopodia. This implicates filopodia in OPC and SC process stability and also of N-WASP in OPC and SC process dynamics. We also demonstrate that p34 (a component of the Arp2/3 complex), WASP/WAVE proteins, actin, alpha-tubulin, Rac, Cdc42, vinculin, and focal adhesion kinase are detected in water-shocked myelin purified from brain. Inhibition of N-WASP with wiskostatin decreases the number of axons undergoing initial ensheathment in intact optic nerve samples and reduces the Po content of dorsal root ganglia:SC co-cultures. Our findings indicate that OPCs, OLs, and SCs extend processes using actin polymerization-driven protrusion dependent on N-WASP. We hypothesize that inner mesaxons of OLs and SCs use the same mechanism to ensheath axons at myelination.
Effects of chemical inhibition of N-WASP, a critical regulator of actin polymerization on aqueous humor outflow through the conventional pathway.	The integrity of actin cytoskeletal organization in aqueous humor outflow pathway is thought to play a critical role in modulation of aqueous humor outflow through the trabecular meshwork. Our understanding of the regulation of actin cytoskeletal dynamics in outflow pathway, however, is very limited. To explore the potential importance of Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP), a critical regulator of actin polymerization/nucleation in aqueous humor outflow pathway, the effects of Wiskostatin, a selective pharmacological inhibitor of N-WASP, on aqueous humor outflow facility were evaluated using enucleated porcine eyes and a constant pressure perfusion system. Further, drug induced effects on actin cytoskeletal organization, cell adhesions, myosin II phosphorylation, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity, and cytoskeletal protein profile in porcine trabecular meshwork (TM) cells were determined by immunofluorescence, zymography, and mass spectrometry. Aqueous humor outflow facility was increased significantly and progressively in the Wiskostatin perfused porcine eyes. The Wiskostatin perfused eyes appear to exhibit increased giant vacuoles in the inner wall of aqueous plexi and deformation of aqueous plexi. The Wiskostatin treated TM cells demonstrated extensive vacuoles in their cytosol, and both actin stress fibers and focal adhesions were decreased in a reversible manner. The drug-treated TM cells also revealed decreased myosin II and actin in the cytoskeletal enriched triton insoluble fraction but did not affect myosin II phosphorylation or MMP-2 activity. These data demonstrate that the chemical inhibition of N-WASP increases aqueous humor outflow facility in association with decreased actomyosin interaction and cell adhesive interactions revealing the importance of N-WASP in homeostasis of aqueous humor outflow.
