Withholding nutrition at the end of life: clinical and ethical issues.	Tube feeding in terminally ill patients has become routine. Indeed, many physicians question the ethics and legality of withdrawal of nutrition and hydration--even in patients whose prospects of recovery are bleak. To avoid unnecessary pain and suffering, patients, physicians, and family members need to discuss the patient's desires, carefully weigh the benefits and burdens of tube feeding, and examine their own beliefs and biases.
Ethical issues in geriatrics: a guide for clinicians.	Because of demographic trends, it is reasonable to expect that clinicians will care for an increasing number of elderly persons with challenging medical and psychosocial problems. These problems and issues, in turn, may lead to daunting ethical dilemmas. Therefore, clinicians should be familiar with ethical dilemmas commonly encountered when caring for elderly patients. We review some of these dilemmas, including ensuring informed consent and confidentiality, determining decision-making capacity, promoting advance care planning and the use of advance directives, surrogate decision making, withdrawing and withholding interventions, using cardiopulmonary resuscitation and do-not-resuscitate orders, responding to requests for interventions, allocating health care resources, and recommending nursing home care. Ethical dilemmas may arise because of poor patient-clinician communication; therefore, we provide practical tips for effective communication. Nevertheless, even in the best circumstances, ethical dilemmas occur. We describe a case-based approach to ethical dilemmas used by the Mayo Clinic Ethics Consultation Service, which begins with a review of the medical indications, patient preferences, quality of life, and contextual features of a given case. This approach enables clinicians to identify and analyze the relevant facts of a case, define the ethical problem, and suggest a solution.
Ethical and legal issues in end-of-life care: content of the End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium curriculum and teaching strategies.	The End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium (ELNEC) is a train-the-trainer educational program to help nursing faculty integrate care of dying patients and their families in the nursing curriculum. This article presents techniques derived from the ELNEC project regarding teaching the ethics module and the key content areas for developing ethical decision-making skills in end-of-life care. Competent end-of-life nursing care begins with an understanding of ethics and the potential affect on care of dying patients and their families.
Acarbose for the prevention of Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance: facts and interpretations concerning the critical analysis of the STOP-NIDDM Trial data.	The STOP-NIDDM Trial has shown that acarbose treatment in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance is associated with a significant risk reduction in the development of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular complications. Kaiser and Sawicki have accused the investigators of the STOP-NIDDM Trial of major biases in the conduct of the study, of manipulating the data and of conflict of interest. The aim of this paper is to present data and explanations refuting these allegations. In the STOP-NIDDM Trial, 61 subjects were excluded from the efficacy analysis before unblinding for legitimate reasons: failure to satisfy major entry criteria (n=17) and lack of post-randomisation data (n=44). Blinding and randomisation were carried out by an independent biostatistician. Titration of placebo/acarbose is well described in the protocol and in the study design paper. Of the study population, 9.3% had a fasting plasma glucose of > or =7.0 mmol/l at screening and could have been diabetic according to the new diagnostic criteria. However, even if these subjects are excluded, patients having acarbose treatment still saw a significant risk reduction in the development of diabetes (p=0.0027). The changes in weight are consistent in different publications and are related to different times of follow-up and assessment. Weight change does have an effect on the development of diabetes, but acarbose treatment is still effective even after adjusting for this (p=0.0063). The cardiovascular endpoints were a clearly designated assessment in the original protocol, and only those defined in the protocol and ascertained by the independent Cardiovascular Event Adjudication Committee were used in the analysis. Hypertension was defined according to the most recent diagnostic criteria. The STOP-NIDDM Trial results are scientifically sound and credible. The investigators stand strongly behind these results demonstrating that acarbose treatment is associated with a delay in the development of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular complications in a high-risk population with IGT.
Ethical decision-making at the end of life--knowledge and attitudes of medical students]	Physicians are often confronted with ethical and legal questions at the end of life. In this study we asked medical students at the universities of Mainz and Berlin (Charité) about the "Guidelines on Physicians' Aid to the Dying" issued by the German Medical Association: their moral attitude and legal knowledge regarding the limitation of medical procedures at the end of life and their judgement about the quality of medical education on these topics.
Ms. B and legal competence: interprofessional collaboration and nurse autonomy.	--Ms. B's wish for withdrawal of treatment was refused. --The nurses' role and autonomy in the decision-making is unclear. --Historically, tensions have existed in the doctor-nurse relationship. --Interprofessional collaboration is encouraged in order to facilitate team working. --Evidence is lacking that this is working and suggests continuing problems. --Legal and ethical education needs emphasizing in order to ensure respect for patient autonomy.
Limitation of treatment at the end-of-life: withholding and withdrawal.	Most deaths in the United States occur under the care of a physician. In most of these cases, decisions must be made about whether to initiate and continue or withdraw life-sustaining medical technology, such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation, ventilation, nutrition and hydration, dialysis, transfusions, and antibiotics. All are part of a medical technological armamentarium that should be used when the goal of treatment is a cure. When a cure is not possible or appropriate, these medical technologies should be withdrawn or withheld. The circumstances in which end of life treatment may be ethically and legally limited through withholding or withdrawal are discussed.
Dehydration. Ethical standards finding in the social controversy]	Three case histories are presented, in which terminal hydration was omitted. Two patients were in the terminal phase of a menigiosis carcinomatosa and Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, the third was completely aphasic and hemiplegic after ischemic stroke. All three died peacefully without signs of suffering or thirst. The psychological aspects of therapeutic-palliative change and the archetypical horror of death are considered. The moral justification is discussed in relation to the "Principles for Physicians Accompanying the Dying" of the German chamber of physicians. The respect of the patient's will is the guiding principle. These ethical controversies should be discussed sincerely and frankly so that the society is enabled to follow.
Decision-making in palliative care practice and the need for moral deliberation: a qualitative study.	The development of palliative care is increasing the interest in the moral problems that arise in the practice of palliative care. It is not clear how caregivers deal with these moral problems. In this article, we focus on the decision whether to continue treatment or to withhold it, and discuss the way caregivers deal with this question amongst themselves and in communication or consultation with the patient. We look at moral deliberation, the process of identifying the crucial arguments for this decision in palliative care.
Statistical inference for cancer trials with treatment switching.	In cancer clinical trials, it is not uncommon that some patients switched their treatments due to lack of efficacy and/or disease progression under ethical consideration. This treatment switch makes it difficult for the evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment under investigation. The current existing methods consider random treatment switch and do not take into consideration of prognosis and/or investigator's assessment that leads to patients' treatment switch. In this paper, we model patients' treatment switching effect in a latent event times model under parametric setting or a latent hazard rate model under the semi-parametric proportional hazard model. Statistical inference procedures under both models are provided. A simulation study is performed to investigate the performance of the proposed methods.
Terminal extubation in 5 end-of-life patients in intensive care units]	Decisions to withhold or withdraw active life support treatment in situations with no hope of improvement remain difficult for critical-care specialists and families; they are not always well understood by the public. This report describes terminal extubation, a particular method of withdrawing ventilator support.
The project of a law concerning patients' rights at the end of life]	A bill about Patients' rights and the end of life was adopted unanimously by the National Assembly on November 30, 2004. Article 1 provides that the physician is not obligated to continue treatment "when the latter appears futile, disproportional and has no effect other than artificially maintaining the patient's life". Article 2 recognizes that painkillers administered at high doses to terminally ill patients may as a side effect "shorten the patient's life". Conscious patients and the families of unconscious patients must be so informed, and the discussion must be mentioned in the patient's file. Physicians must respect their patients' refusal of treatment, even in life-threatening situations. On the other hand, patients who are not terminally ill must await the expiration of a mandatory waiting period before the physicians must comply with their wishes to refuse care. Article 3 specifies that any treatment can be withheld or withdrawn, including artificial nutrition. The law specifies that it is applicable in 4 different sets of situations: for patients who are or are not terminally and for those who are or are not conscious. Article 9 makes clear that futile treatment of unconscious patients can be withheld or withdrawn. Article 7 specifies that adults may draw up advance directives to indicate their wishes for their end of life and their desires regarding the withholding or withdrawal of treatment. Withholding or withdrawing active treatment is authorized under 3 conditions: the consent from the patient, or if he or she is unconscious, the approval of the health-care proxy, or a family member or close friend if the patient is unconscious; the inclusion of the decision in the patient's medical file, and a group decision-making process.
Who decides? An ethics case consult for Terri Schiavo.	What lessons might we take away as palliative care clinicians or ethics consultants? I might summarize as follows: As has been widely discussed elsewhere, the importance of advance directives, designation of proxy decision makers, and nuanced discussions with those potential proxies is of utmost importance--even for young adults. Be as clear as possible about diagnosis and prognosis. Rely on those with the greatest expertise and the least potential conflict of interest. Be honest about the limits of medical certainty and the diagnostic and prognostic possibilities. Separate reality from what loved ones or special interest advocates might wish were the reality. Efforts to resolve disputes among families or between families and care providers ought to remain private, and focus on the patient at hand rather than broader social or political agendas. Ethics committees or independent mediators work toward "win-win" outcomes and may help avoid the polarized, "winner-take-all" approach of litigation. Medical facts are not value-free and do not add up to a universally agreed-upon conclusion in the manner of a mathematical equation, but are viewed and interpreted through the lens of each participant's perspective. In the space of this essay, I can offer only a brief nod to the field of narrative ethics, but the interested reader will find a rich body of literature regarding this concept on which to base his or her own ethical conclusions regarding this case.
'Death rattle' after withdrawal of mechanical ventilation: practical and ethical considerations.	The noise produced by oscillatory movements of secretions in oropharynx, hypopharynx and trachea during inspiration and expiration in unconscious terminal patients is often described as 'the death rattle'. The reported incidence of death rattle in terminally ill patients varied between six and 92%. It is most commonly reported in patients dying from pulmonary malignancies, primary brain tumours or brain metastases, and predicts death within 48 hours in 75% of the patients. Clinical studies demonstrate that hyoscine hydrobromide is effective at improving symptoms. After withdrawal of artificial ventilation on the intensive care unit, excessive respiratory secretions resulting in rattling breathing, during the last hours of life, is not uncommon. Physicians and nurses experience considerable difficulties and frustrations in treating the death rattle. The distressing experience and negative influence in the bereavement process indicates an ethical demand to treat this symptom from the perspective of others merely than that of the patient. This article provides practical and ethical considerations in the management of this near-death symptom. The fact that relatives were relieved in almost all cases, in which a positive effect was obtained, makes treatment in anticipation of death rattle an ethical demand. In practice, injectable scopolamine is the reference drug for symptomatic treatment of death rattle.
Death in an intensive care unit. Influence of life support withholding and withdrawal]	The influence of life support withholding and withdrawal on the deaths which occurred in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) over a period of 32 months was analysed. Of 2640 patients admitted in ICU, one of the following five mutually exclusive categories was registered on the 548 patients who died: (i) complete treatment; (ii) complete treatment with non-resuscitation order (NRO); (iii) withholding of life-sustaining treatment; (iv) withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment; and (v) brain death. There was therapeutic limitation of life support in 45.6% of cases (n = 250), with an important majority of withholding (NRO and withholding) in 32.6% of cases, in comparison to withdrawal of life support (8.2% of cases). The comparative analysis with other statistic information suggests the existence of a similar global therapeutic limitation mean in communities with similar cultural background, even if there is a lower influence of life support withdrawal (8.2%) when compared to other countries regardless of their attitude towards the need to establish different degrees of control over technological resources applied to the critically ill. Further research should analyze the influence that moral perception of withdrawal as inconvenient in our society, has over our findings.
Is it in the best interests of an intellectually disabled infant to die?	One of the most contentious ethical issues in the neonatal intensive care unit is the withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment from infants who may otherwise survive. In practice, one of the most important factors influencing this decision is the prediction that the infant will be severely intellectually disabled. Most professional guidelines suggest that decisions should be made on the basis of the best interests of the infant. It is, however, not clear how intellectual disability affects those interests. Why should intellectual disability be more important than physical disability to the future interests of an infant? Is it discriminatory to base decisions on this? This paper will try to unravel the above questions. It seems that if intellectual disability does affect the best interests of the child it must do so in one of three ways. These possibilities will be discussed as well as the major challenges to the notion that intellectual disability should have a role in such decisions. The best interests of the child can be affected by severe or profound intellectual disability. It is, though, not as clear-cut as some might expect.
Cultural lag, economic scarcity, and the technological quagmire of "Infant Doe".	The major purpose of this article is to explore the substantial disparity between access to resources provided at birth to a child with spina bifida--a so-called Baby Doe--and later access to resources needed to sustain that child throughout the life course. The author's organizing principle is the allocative paradoxes created by the clash of technology, scarcity, and demography. The study is based on an eight-year inquiry into the way life-saving medical decisions are made about children with spina bifida. This work focuses on the qualitative aspects of that inquiry. There is a societal need to debate health care rationing, to do much more systematic technology assessment, and to develop a much more consistently rational system of health care delivery.
Discontinuation of mechanical ventilation at end-of-life: the ethical and legal boundaries of physician conduct in termination of life support.	End-of-life care in the ICU generally encompasses both the withholding and withdrawal of life support and the administration of palliative care. There is little practical distinction in the specific technology or life-support modality that is limited or removed with respect to the subsequent medical, ethical, or legal analysis. The important ethical issues pertinent to end-of-life care in the ICU at the point-of-life support discontinuation are: (1) the distinction between allowing patients to die in accordance with their wishes and causing them die, (2) the fine line between respecting a patient's wish to die with dignity and control and the risk of subsequent allegations of euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, and (3) the adjunctive use of medications that simultaneously provide comfort but also may hasten death. The medical and legal issues are summarized, and an algorithm for the discontinuation of mechanical ventilatory support at the end of life is presented.
Legal basis for ethical withholding and withdrawing life-sustaining medical treatment from infants and children.	Withholding and withdrawing life-sustaining medical treatment is common in hospitals, particularly in intensive care unit environments. Usually, decisions regarding limitation of therapy are based on ethical considerations and derived by discussion and mutual agreement between parents and clinicians. However, disputes sometimes arise. When such disputes are settled in court, the judgements constitute common law and may serve as the basis for ethical decisions. All cases have been decided in the 'best interests' of the unfortunate child. Although each case has its own circumstances, a composite view reveals three legal criteria for withholding or withdrawing treatment. These are based on the present and future 'quality of life', 'futility' of present treatment and a comparison of 'burdens versus benefits' of present and future treatment and its discontinuance. These legal principles may facilitate difficult ethical decisions. This article identifies a number of common law cases which establishes these principles.
Consent in Alzheimer's disease research: risk/benefit factors.	In the era of chronic disease, we are challenged to find therapies that provide symptomatic relief and ideally, alter the course of the underlying disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), these issues are complicated by the disease itself, which affects the subject's decision-making capacity for participation in the research. According to established ethical guidelines it is clear that individuals with impaired capacity may participate in research and their risk should be no greater than that which the individual would have in day to day activities with anticipation of benefits within that realm. Decision making processes are complex and involve proxies who themselves have biases about their loved one and the potential for participating in the research. Newer disease-modifying approaches such as immunotherapy have potential for affecting the course of the underlying disease but with greater risk of more significant side effects. Ideally the health care of the subjects is not disadvantaged by research participation. At the same time, trials of potentially riskier therapy are relevant in subjects with the disease. Research for subjects with AD must have appropriate safeguards in place to enable effective progress in innovative therapy for a vulnerable, often elderly population. Recommendations are made which could further our capacity to undertake ethical research in the AD population.
Ethical aspects of withdrawing and withholding treatment.	Decisions about withdrawing and withholding treatment are common in health care. During almost every encounter between health professionals and patients a decision needs to be made about treatment options. In most cases these choices do not pose any difficulty, for example, starting antibiotics when a patient has an infection. However, decisions not to treat, or to stop treating, raise fundamental questions about the nature and purpose of nursing and the ethics of end-of-life care. This article argues that nurses need to be proactive in deciding what is nursing care and what is treatment. An ethical distinction is drawn between acts and omissions. How this distinction relates to withdrawing and withholding treatment will be considered. Further ethical issues discussed relate to judgements about the futility of treatment, patient autonomy and nurses' duty of care to patients at the end of life.
"Special treatment": BiDil, Tuskegee, and the logic of race.	BiDil, a drug approved in 2005 by the FDA only for African Americans, was seen by many as almost reparations for the horrors of the Tuskegee Syphilis Study (1932-72) where treatment for black men was denied. The logic of race, however, rather than racism, links BiDil to the past many thought it was escaping.
Ethical choices in medically futile treatment]	The concept "medical futile treatment" is disputed and is not unequivocally defined. The paper explores legitimate disagreement, autonomy and decision making processes in two cases concerning withdrawal of treatment. We suggest a decision making procedure for such cases.
Surgical "buy-in": the contractual relationship between surgeons and patients that influences decisions regarding life-supporting therapy.	There is a general consensus by intensivists and nonsurgical providers that surgeons hesitate to withdraw life-sustaining therapy on their operative patients despite a patient's or surrogate's request to do so. The objective of this study was to examine the culture and practice of surgeons to assess attitudes and concerns regarding advance directives for their patients who have high-risk surgical procedures.
Failsafe automation of Phase II clinical trial interim monitoring for stopping rules.	In Phase II clinical trials in cancer, preventing the treatment of patients on a study when current data demonstrate that the treatment is insufficiently active or too toxic has obvious benefits, both in protecting patients and in reducing sponsor costs. Considerable efforts have gone into experimental designs for Phase II clinical trials with flexible sample size, usually implemented by early stopping rules. The intended benefits will not ensue, however, if the design is not followed. Despite the best intentions, failures can occur for many reasons.
Progress in ethical decision making in the care of the dying.	Practitioners in critical care have made a significant progress in caring for dying patients in critical care by taking advantage of the suggestions from their professional groups. Progress has been made in responding to and controlling patients' pain. Major initiatives from the Joint Commission and the American Pain Society have helped direct this improvement. Palliative care consultations as well as ethics consultations have improved symptom control in the critically ill. Issues of consent have been problematic for dying patients in critical care especially in the area of discontinuing therapies. But, better policies related to advance directives have been developed to ensure good care. Spiritual care has received more attention, and now chaplains are recognized by the Society for Critical Care Medicine as integral to the critical care team. The American Association of Critical-Care Nurses has been a leader in improving end-of-life issues and continues to spearhead many projects to improve end-of-life care.
Life support and euthanasia, a perspective on Shaw's new perspective.	It has recently been suggested by Shaw (2007) that the distinction between voluntary active euthanasia, such as giving a patient a lethal overdose with the intention of ending that patient's life, and voluntary passive euthanasia, such as removing a patient from a ventilator, is much less obvious than is commonly acknowledged in the literature. This is argued by suggesting a new perspective that more accurately reflects the moral features of end-of-life situations. The argument is simply that if we consider the body of a mentally competent patient who wants to die, a kind of 'unwarranted' life support, then the distinction collapses. We argue that all Shaw has provided is a perspective that makes the conclusion that there is little distinction between voluntary active euthanasia and voluntary passive euthanasia only seemingly more palatable. In doing so he has yet to convince us that this perspective is superior to other perspectives and thus more accurately reflects the moral features of the situations pertaining to this issue.
Health advocacy training: why are physicians withholding life-saving care?	The societal responsibility of physicians to be health advocates, both at the population and patient level is necessary to positively influence public health and policy. Physicians must commit to learn about policy reform and the legislative process. Several regulatory physician organizations emphasize the importance of health. In addition, the Association of American Medical Colleges' (AAMC) Medical Schools Objectives Project, the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination objectives and several Canadian medical schools outline advocacy as an objective. As a result, several US medical schools have designed and incorporated health advocacy into their curricula. Canadian medical schools, however, have been lagging behind. To address this deficiency, the University of Alberta and the University of Calgary hosted the 1st Annual Alberta Political Action Day (PAD) to engage medical students in advocacy and the policy making process. The two-day time requirement of PAD makes it an efficient model to incorporate health advocacy into the already demanding undergraduate medical curriculum. Canadian medical schools must follow the American example and further integrate initiatives such as PAD to teach health advocacy. The skills developed will enhance student's comprehension of how they can shape health policy and truly advocate for optimal patient care.
Ethical issues in nutrition support of severely disabled elderly persons: a guide for health professionals.	Providing or withholding nutrition in severely disabled elderly persons is a challenging dilemma for families, health professionals, and institutions. Despite limited evidence that nutrition support improves functional status in vulnerable older persons, especially those suffering from dementia, the issue of nutrition support in this population is strongly debated. Nutrition might be considered a basic need that not only sustains life but provides comfort as well by patients and their families. Consequently, the decision to provide or withhold nutrition support during medical care is often complex and involves clinical, legal, and ethical considerations. This article proposes a guide for health professionals to appraise ethical issues related to nutrition support in severely disabled older persons. This guide is based on an 8-step process to identify the components of a situation, analyze conflicting values that result in the ethical dilemma, and eventually reach a consensus for the most relevant plan of care to implement in a specific clinical situation. A vignette is presented to illustrate the use of this guide when analyzing a clinical situation.
Defending the sanctity of life principle: a reply to John Keown.	This article is a response to Professor John Keown's criticism of my article "Finding a Way Through the Ethical and Legal Maze: Withdrawal of Medical Treatment and Euthanasia" (2005) 13(3) Medical Law Review 357. The article takes up and responds to a number of criticisms raised by Keown in an attempt to further the debate concerning the moral and legal status of withdrawing life-sustaining measures, its distinction from euthanasia, and the implications of the lawfulness of withdrawal for the principle of the sanctity of life.
Monological versus dialogical consciousness: two epistemological views on the use of theory in clinical ethical practice.	In this article, we argue that a critical examination of epistemological and anthropological presuppositions might lead to a more fruitful use of theory in clinical-ethical practice. We differentiate between two views of conceptualizing ethics, referring to Charles Taylors' two epistemological models: 'monological' versus 'dialogical consciousness'. We show that the conception of ethics in the model of 'dialogical consciousness' is radically different from the classical understanding of ethics in the model of 'monological consciousness'. To reach accountable moral judgments, ethics cannot be conceptualized as an individual enterprise, but has to be seen as a practical endeavor embedded in social interactions within which moral understandings are being negotiated. This view has specific implications for the nature and the role of ethical theory. Theory is not created in the individual mind of the ethicist; the use of theory is part of a joint learning process and embedded in a cultural context and social history. Theory is based upon practice, and serves practical purposes. Thus, clinical ethics support is both practical and theoretical.
Withdrawal of life-support from ALS patients in so called totally locked in state: from the viewpoint of clinical ethics]	In Japanese context, there has been a controversy concerning the withdrawal of life-support, i.e. respiratory system, from ALS patients when, along of the progress of the disease, they have become not able to express themselves at all to people around them, i.e. when they are in so called 'totally locked in state (TLS)'. Basing himself on the system of clinical ethics he has been developing in accord with Japanese culture, the author (1) reconstitutes the logic of justifying the withdrawal in dispute, (2) examines objections against officially recognizing such withdrawal, and (3) proposes an appropriate process of decision making which he hopes to be acceptable to both sides in the controversy.
"We don't have a crystal ball..." Neonatologists' views on prognosis, magnetic resonance imaging and treatment withdrawal for infants with birth asphyxia.	Birth asphyxia is the most common single cause of death in term newborn infants. The majority of deaths in developed countries follow decisions to withdraw intensive care. Recent technological advances, particularly the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, may affect the process of prognostication and decision-making. There is little existing evidence about how prognosis is determined in newborn infants and how this relates to treatment withdrawal decisions. An exploratory qualitative study was performed using in-depth semi-structured interviews with a sample of ten neonatologists from tertiary intensive care units in the UK. Participants were purposively selected to ensure a range of experience and type of unit. They were asked about the process of prognostication for infants with birth asphyxia and decisions about treatment withdrawal. Interviews were transcribed and thematically analysed. MRI played a significant role in decision-making about life-sustaining treatment for a number of clinicians. Clinicians did not identify particular ethical concerns related to MRI, though wider discussion revealed issues relating to uncertainty around predictions, the timing of prognostication and decision-making, and difficulty in predicting quality of life.
How much weight should we give to parental interests in decisions about life support for newborn infants?	Life-sustaining treatment is sometimes withdrawn or withheld from critically ill newborn infants with poor prognosis. Guidelines relating to such decisions place emphasis on the best interests of the infant. However, in practice, parental views and parental interests are often taken into consideration. In this paper I draw on the example of newborn infants with severe muscle weakness (for example spinal muscular atrophy). I provide two arguments that parental interests should be given some weight in decisions about treatment, and that they should be given somewhat more weight in decisions about newborns than for older children. Firstly, the interests of the infant and of parents intersect, and are hard to separate. Parents' views about treatment may be relevant to an assessment of the infant's interests, and they may also affect those interests. Secondly, the interests of the infant in her future are relatively reduced by her developmental immaturity. In some situations parents' welfare interests outweigh those of the infant. However, I argue that this would not justify treatment limitation except in the setting of severe impairment.
Pacemaker deactivation: withdrawal of support or active ending of life?	In spite of ethical analyses assimilating the palliative deactivation of pacemakers to commonly accepted withdrawings of life-sustaining therapy, many clinicians remain ethically uncomfortable with pacemaker deactivation at the end of life. Various reasons have been posited for this discomfort. Some cardiologists have suggested that reluctance to deactivate pacemakers may stem from a sense that the pacemaker has become part of the patient's "self." The authors suggest that Daniel Sulmasy is correct to contend that any such identification of the pacemaker is misguided. The authors argue that clinicians uncomfortable with pacemaker deactivation are nevertheless correct to see it as incompatible with the traditional medical ethics of withdrawal of support. Traditional medical ethics is presently taken by many to sanction pacemaker deactivation when such deactivation honors the patient's right to refuse treatment. The authors suggest that the right to refuse treatment applies to treatments involving ongoing physician agency. This right cannot underwrite patient demands that physicians reverse the effects of treatments previously administered, in which ongoing physician agency is no longer implicated. The permanently indwelling pacemaker is best seen as such a treatment. As such, its deactivation in the pacemaker-dependent patient is best seen not as withdrawal of support but as active ending of life. That being the case, clinicians adhering to the usual ethical analysis of withdrawal of support are correct to be uncomfortable with pacemaker deactivation at the end of life.
Bioethics limitation of therapeutic effort in pediatrics]	Given that the demand of society has shifted to seek maximum efficiency, maximum help based on the patient autonomy respect and awareness of its necessity, the limitation of therapeutic effort is one of the decisions more complex. Therefore, it should be an institutional objective to know the limitations of practice, assess and encourage improvement and in doubtful cases, resort to Assistive Bioethics Committees to advise on the development of clinical protocols in cases which the professional or the therapeutic team is faced with an ethical dilemma.
Between patient autonomy and the ethics of care : difficult end-of-life decision-making in intensive care]	The article illustrates the ethical principles and the legal context of end-of-life decision-making in the intensive care unit (ICU). After a long period of preference for medical paternalism, patient autonomy has now developed into the standard for medical decision-making. Medical interventions are justified by medical indications and patient consent. A competent patient may make a decision which is unreasonable from the physician's view. A mentally incompetent patient will can be explored by studying the written anticipated advance directive in which the patient has formulated value priorities. The binding character of patient advance directives was regulated in German law in 2009; the decision has to be made in a dialogue between the physician and the proxy. A judgment of the German High Court in 2010 confirmed that even an active withdrawal of therapeutic measures, such as mechanical ventilation is legal.
The case for kidney donation before end-of-life care.	Donation after cardiac death (DCD) is associated with many problems, including ischemic injury, high rates of delayed allograft function, and frequent organ discard. Furthermore, many potential DCD donors fail to progress to asystole in a manner that would enable safe organ transplantation and no organs are recovered. DCD protocols are based upon the principle that the donor must be declared dead prior to organ recovery. A new protocol is proposed whereby after a donor family agrees to withdrawal of life-sustaining treatments, premortem nephrectomy is performed in advance of end-of-life management. Since nephrectomy should not cause the donor's death, this approach satisfies the dead donor rule. The donor family's wishes are best met by organ donation, successful outcomes for the recipients, and a dignified death for the deceased. This proposal improves the likelihood of achieving these objectives.
On ethical locations: the good death in Thailand, where ethics sit in places.	In this article, I use ethnographic data on end-of-life care in Northern Thailand to address the relationship between ethics and place. My analysis is based on fieldwork conducted in 2007-2008, consisting of twenty in-depth oral life-histories of dying patients; ninety-five interviews with patients, family members and caretakers; fifty-four interviews with providers, administrators, civil society leaders and other key informants; as well as participant-observation of care of patients at the deathbed. In Northern Thailand, many feel that it is ethical to withdraw life support in the home, but unethical to withdraw it in the hospital. This is because the place of death is partly responsible for the quality of rebirth. Hospitals, on one hand, are powerful for saving lives; but as places to die, they are amoral, dangerous, devoid of ceremonial history and haunted by spirits. Homes, on the other hand, are optimal for dying because they are imbued with moral power from a history of beneficial ceremony and family living. Hospitalized patients at the edge of death are often rushed home by ambulance to withdraw life support in the more ethical place. I argue that the two places can be considered different ethical locations, because each is inhabited by a unique ethical framework governing withdrawal of life support. This concept has implications for the contemporary globalization of bioethics and for understanding practices that arise around ethically charged decisions.
Emmanuel Levinas and the face of Terri Schiavo: bioethical and phenomenological reflections on a private tragedy and public spectacle.	The controversial case of Terri Schiavo came to a close on March 31, 2005, with her death following the removal of a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube. This event followed years of controversy and social upheaval. Voices from across the entire political and cultural spectrums filled the airwaves and op-ed pages of major newspapers. Protests ensued outside of Ms. Schiavo's care facility. Ms. Schiavo's parents published videos of their daughter on the internet in an effort to prove that she was not in a vegetative state and could potentially recover. There is a certain mystery to the entire controversy given the fact that, legally, it was largely a matter of settled law. Precedent cases and legal statutes clearly set out the proper procedures and decisions to be followed in this case. Nonetheless, powerful challenges and virulent opposition to these standards arose. Through an investigation of this case as well as a comparative study of the case of Dax Cowart (in particular, the documentary depictions of Dax Cowart's case) and of a photograph by Joel-Peter Witkin, I plan to investigate the source of these social upheavals and hypothesize that they were largely the result of a phenomenological reaction to the human face.
Epidemiology and evaluation of withdrawing and withholding of treatment procedure in a pediatric intensive care unit]	Leonetti Law of 2005 concerns procedures for questioning about the appropriateness of initiating or maintaining life-sustaining treatments. Decision of withdrawing and withholding treatment has long been practiced by neonatologists, adult and pediatricians intensivists. In this regard, the recommendations of societies encourage medical teams to assess their practices to improve them. Our evaluation is based on the document of the Ethics Committee of SRLF edited in 2010.
When life-sustaining treatment is withdrawn and the patient doesn't die.	One of the most difficult decisions that doctors and parents must make is the decision to withdraw life-sustaining treatment. Doctors find it easier to withdraw treatments in situations where withdrawal will be rapidly fatal rather than in situations in which treatment withdrawal will lead to a prolonged dying process. Mechanical ventilation is usually such a treatment. Withdrawal of ventilation generally leads to the patient's rapid demise. Doctors may tell parents that death will occur quickly after a ventilator is withdrawn. But what happens when the doctors are wrong and a patient survives without life support? What should doctors do next? We present a case in which that happened and asked 3 experts to comment on the case. Stefan Kutzsche is a senior consultant in neonatology at Oslo University Hospital Ulleval in Norway. John Colin Partridge is a neonatologist and professor of pediatrics at University of California, San Francisco. Steven R. Leuthner is a neonatologist and professor of pediatrics and bioethics at the Medical College of Wisconsin. They each recommend slightly different approaches to this dilemma. 
Withdrawing and withholding life-sustaining treatment.	The ethics of decisions to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining therapies are reviewed. Special attention is paid to the ethical and moral distinctions - or lack thereof - between withholding and withdrawing. The ethical principles informing decisions to forgo life-sustaining therapy are covered, along with the difficulty of making such decisions in the face of prognostic uncertainty. Specific advice is provided regarding the decision-making process, and recent literature regarding decision-making in the neurologic intensive care unit is reviewed. 
European perspectives on ethics and law in end-of-life care.	End-of-life care practices and attitudes in Europe are highly diverse, which is unsurprising given the variety of cultural and religious patterns across this region. The most marked differences are in the legal and ethical stances towards assisted dying, although there are also variations in limitation of life-sustaining treatment and the authority of advance directives to decline such treatment. Palliative care has made a rapid and impressive development in many European countries over the last decade, and alleviating symptoms at the end of life is permitted, even if the drugs used might (in the rare case) not only relieve suffering but also shorten life. Fueled by the politically led process of European harmonization, future policies and laws on end-of-life care might converge. However, at the base of many ethical conflicts there remain deeply rooted differences about promoting the sanctity of life, eradicating suffering, and respecting patients' autonomous wishes. 
Coma and disorders of consciousness.	Patients in coma, vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, and in minimally conscious states pose medical, scientific, and ethical challenges. As patients with disorders of consciousness are by definition unable to communicate, the assessment of pain, quality of life, and end-of-life preferences in these conditions can only be approached by adopting a third-person perspective. Surveys of healthcare workers' attitudes towards pain and end of life in disorders of consciousness shed light on the background of clinical reality, where no standard medical-legal framework is widely accepted. On the other hand, patients with locked-in syndrome, who are severely paralyzed but fully conscious, can inform about subjective quality of life in serious disability and help us to understand better the underlying factors influencing happiness in disease. In the medico-legal arena, such ethical issues may be resolved by previously drafted advance directives and, when absent, by surrogate representation. Lately, functional medical imaging and electrophysiology provide alternative means to communicate with these challenging patients and will potentially mediate to extract responses of medical-ethical content. Eventually, the clinical translation of these advanced technologies in the medical routine is of paramount importance for the promotion of medical management of these challenging patients. 
Ethical issues in states of impaired communication with intact consciousness and language.	Acute and chronic peripheral and/or central disorders of the voluntary motor system can produce profound paresis or paralysis, at times with ophthalmoplegia, while preserving consciousness and language function. Although at times appearing to be unconscious, these patients are awake and alert but unable to communicate, manipulate their environment, or participate in medical decision-making. Clinicians caring for these patients are ethically tasked with recognizing this clinical reality, enacting measures to facilitate communication, and abiding by ethical and legal principles that support autonomous patient-centered decision-making. This chapter reviews the various disorders that may cause this state while using three exemplary disorders - locked-in syndrome, caused by an anterior pontine lesion; high cervical spinal cord lesion; and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - to discuss the management of these patients. 
Medical futility procedures: what more do we need to know?	Unilateral medical futility policies, which allow health-care providers to limit or withdraw life-sustaining treatment over patient or surrogate objections, are increasingly designed around a procedural approach. Medical or ethics committees follow a prespecified process, the culmination of which is a justified decision about whether ongoing treatment should be withheld or withdrawn. These procedures have three stages. First, health-care providers must decide to refer patients for consideration of whether ongoing treatment is futile. Second, the committees involved must decide whether ongoing treatment is actually futile. Third, there is a clinical outcome that often is, but not always, patient death. We review the available data on procedure-based futility policies, arguing that there is limited information on their potential harms and how these harms are distributed. We consider the ethical implications of policy-making under informational uncertainty, invoking the precautionary principle--in the absence of clear data, if a policy has significant risk of significant harm, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those recommending the policy--as the guiding moral standard for hospitals and professional organizations considering whether to adopt a procedural approach to medical futility. On the basis of this principle, we argue that any new futility guideline must include a significant commitment to collecting prospective data on its application.
Issues for palliative medicine doctors surrounding the withdrawal of non-invasive ventilation at the request of a patient with motor neurone disease: a scoping study.	Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) is beneficial for respiratory failure in motor neurone disease (MND) but some patients may wish to stop the intervention. Guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommends that research is needed on NIV withdrawal. There is little in the literature focusing on the issues doctors face when withdrawing NIV in this group.
