The road to maleness: from testis to Wolffian duct.	The establishment of the male internal reproductive system involves two crucial events: the formation of the testis and the maintenance and differentiation of the Wolffian duct. Testis formation, particularly the specification of Sertoli cell and Leydig cell lineages, is controlled strictly by genetic components initiated by the testis-determining gene SRY (sex-determining region of the Y chromosome). Conversely, Wolffian duct differentiation is not directly mediated via the composition of the sex chromosome or SRY; instead, it relies on androgens derived from the Leydig cells. Leydig cells do not express SRY, indicating that a crosstalk must be present between the SRY-positive Sertoli and Leydig cells to ensure normal androgen production. Recent advancement of genetic and genomic approaches has unveiled the molecular pathways for differentiation of Sertoli cells and Leydig cells as well as development of the Wolffian duct.
Abnormal development of urogenital organs in Dlgh1-deficient mice.	Dlgh1 (discs large homolog 1) is a mammalian homolog of the Drosophila tumor suppressor Discs large 1, and is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) scaffolding proteins that contain three PSD-95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ) domains. Discs large 1 is involved in epithelial polarization and cell-cell adhesion complex formation during Drosophila development. However, the functions of Dlgh1 during mammalian development remain to be elucidated. We generated Dlgh1-knockout mice and found that homozygous Dlgh1-knockout mice developed various abnormalities in their renal and urogenital organs. The kidneys and ureters were hypoplastic and the lower ends of the ureters were ectopic. In addition, the vagina and seminal vesicle, which are derived from the lower part of the Müllerian and Wolffian duct, respectively, were absent. Unexpectedly, loss of Dlgh1 function in the developing ureters did not disrupt cell-cell junctional complexes, but did impair cellular proliferation in the epithelium. These results suggest a novel role for Dlgh1 in regulating epithelial duct formation and morphogenesis during mammalian development. Although congenital absence of the vagina associated with other variable Müllerian duct abnormalities has been reported in humans, its mechanism has not yet been clarified. Our findings might contribute to a better understanding of such abnormalities.
Organotypic culture of the urogenital tract.	Organotypic culture is an invaluable technique that allows researchers with the tool to analyze a tissue development in an isolated and well-defined environment. This technique also permits one to study the roles of different signaling systems/signaling molecules and to take advantage of the modern real-time imaging techniques, including confocal microscopy. With great success, our lab has used organotypic culture of the urogenital tract (UGT) to study growth and extension of the mesonephric (Wolffian) duct and its cloaca connection, ureter maturation, and bladder urothelium development (Batourina et al. Nat Genet 32:109, 2002; Batourina et al. Nat Genet 37:1082, 2005; Mendelsohn Organogenesis 5:306, 2009).
