Sleep in space.	Manned space flights have shown it is possible to sleep in microgravity. However, some sleep disturbances have been reported which influence performance of the crew and safety of space flight. This paper reviews the main studies of in-flight sleep in animal and man. Most disturbances are related to phase lags due to operational requirements. Factors which can disturb in-flight sleep are analysed: environmental factors. Some of them are secondary to space flight ergonomics. Conversely, effects of microgravity on light-dark alternance are less known and lead to interesting problems of fundamental research, psychological factors, especially during long duration flights.
Pre-adaptation to shiftwork in space.	Astronauts are often required to work in shift schedules. To test pre-mission adaptation strategies and effects on the circadian system, a study was performed using microgravity simulation by head-down bedrest. Eight male subjects were studied over 4 control days, and 7 days each for pre-mission adaptation, bedrest, and readjustment. The circadian system was assessed by monitoring ECG and temperature, and by collecting urine for determination of hormones and electrolytes. Rhythms did not achieve complete adjustment within the adaptation period when the sleep-wake cycle was shortened by 1 h/day, but resynchronization continued during bedrest. After the bedrest period when the time shift was reversed by a 7-h delay within 2 days, resynchronization was achieved satisfactorily only within 7 days. From the results it is concluded that a sleep-wake cycle advance as used in this study is insufficient to keep the circadian system in pace. Under operational conditions the circadian system of astronauts may become longer and more destabilized than under controlled laboratory conditions.
Evaluation of coronary heart disease risk model by carotid ultrasonography in the occupational setting--intima-media thickness and coronary heart disease risk]	Recently, because of an increase in aged workers with high risk health conditions in Japan, it is becoming necessary to have a preventive control system for work-related diseases, such as coronary heart disease. We have already built a system by applying the prediction model of Framingham's risk equation for management after an annual check-up since 1999. At that time, we considered the relationship between CHD risk and intimamedia thickness (IMT) as an index of actual atherosclerosis. Correlation coefficients among max IMT, CHD risk and the several health factors in the corporate annual health check-up were obtained by Spearman's method. Significant associations with max IMT were only for CHD risk and systolic blood pressure. Correlation coefficients were 0.30 and 0.21 for CHD risk and systolic blood pressure, respectively. Furthermore, when we divided findings into those for the atherosclerotic and non-atherosclerotic groups defined by a max IMT over 1.1 mm or less, the difference between the two groups in CHD risks was investigated by t-test. The CHD risk for the atherosclerotic group was revealed to be significantly higher than that for the non-atherosclerotic group, with the means +/- SD in the two groups being 21.4 +/- 9.4% and 17.0 +/- 7.7%, respectively. CHD risk was therefore concluded to be important for the objective index of atherosclerosis from the viewpoint of high-risk-strategy in the worksite.
Psychophysical study of six hand movements.	This study represents a continuation of a series of psychophysical studies on repetitive motions of the wrist and hand conducted at the Liberty Mutual Research Center for Safety and Health. The purpose of the study was to quantify maximum acceptable forces of six motions performed on separate days but within the context of the same experiment. The six motions were wrist flexion with a power grip, wrist extension with a power grip, wrist flexion with a pinch grip, wrist extension with a pinch grip, ulnar deviation with a power grip, and a handgrip task (with a power grip). A psychophysical methodology was used in which the subject adjusted the resistance on the handle and the experimenter manipulated or controlled all other variables. Thirty-one subjects performed the six tasks at repetition rates of 15, 20 and 25 motions/min. Subjects performed the tasks for 7 h per day, 5 days per week, for 4 weeks. The subjects were instructed to work as if they were on an incentive basis, getting paid for the amount of work performed. Symptoms were recorded by the subjects during the last 5 min of each hour. The results revealed that maximum acceptable torques ranged from 11 to 19% of maximum isometric torque depending on frequency and motion. Maximum acceptable torques for the tasks that could be compared with previous studies showed the same patterns of response. However, the selected forces were substantially lower using the mixed protocol. A table of maximum acceptable torques and forces is presented for application in the field.
Sleep loss and fatigue in medical training.	The effects of sleep loss and fatigue in the context of medical training is a topic that has generated considerable interest, as well as controversy, over the past two decades. The sleep deprived state in medical trainees potentially impacts on a variety of domains relevant to medical care, including performance on neurobehavioral and work-related tasks, mood and affect, learning, risk for and commission of medical errors, and the health and well-being of medical students and residents. The following review provides a summary of research conducted on this topic in the past decade, including the relation of sleep loss and fatigue to medical errors and the quality of patient care. Those few studies that have analyzed the use of operational alertness management strategies, countermeasures, and educational interventions to address and mitigate the effects of sleep loss and fatigue are also reviewed. There is clearly a need for additional research to further explore the complex interaction between sleep and fatigue and medical care, and to support the development and implementation of regulatory policies based on sound science.
Excessive fatigue and weight gain among cleanroom workers after changing from an 8-hour to a 12-hour shift.	This study attempted to clarify the health effects of implementing a 12-hour shift in place of the traditional 8-hour shift in work in a clean room in an electronic parts producing factory.
Engineering and simulation of life sciences Spacelab experiments.	The third in a series of Spacelab Mission Development tests was conducted at the Johnson (correction of Johnston) Space Center as a part of the development of Life Sciences experiments for the Space Shuttle era. The latest test was a joint effort of the Ames Research and Johnson Space Centers and utilized animals and men for study. The basic objective of this test was to evaluate the operational concepts planned for the Space Shuttle life science payloads program. A three-man crew (Mission Specialist and two Payload Specialists) conducted 26 experiments and 12 operational tests, which were selected for this 7-day mission simulation. The crew lived on board a simulated Orbiter/Spacelab mockup 24 hr a day. The Orbiter section contained the mid deck crew quarters area, complete with sleeping, galley and waste management provisions. The Spacelab was identical in geometry to the European Space Agency Spacelab design, complete with removable rack sections and stowage provisions. Communications between the crewmen and support personnel were configured and controlled as currently planned for operational shuttle flights. For this test a Science Operations Remote Center was manned at the Ames Research Center and was managed by simulated Mission Control and Payload Operation Control Centers at the Johnson Space Center. This paper presents the test objectives, description of the facilities and test program, and the results of this test.
Role stress and career satisfaction among registered nurses by work shift patterns.	This study examined the variation in role stress and career satisfaction among hospital-based registered nurses (RNs) by shift length.
Driver drowsiness--are physicians at a special risk?]	Sleepiness at the wheel is the main cause of approximately a fifth of road traffic accidents. The driver will often feel drowsy before the accident, therefore preventive measures can be taken in order to stay alert.
Applying mathematical modeling to create job rotation schedules for minimizing occupational noise exposure.	This research developed worker schedules by using administrative controls and a computer programming model to reduce the likelihood of worker hearing loss. By rotating the workers through different jobs during the day it was possible to reduce their exposure to hazardous noise levels. Computer simulations were made based on data collected in a real setting. Worker schedules currently used at the site are compared with proposed worker schedules from the computer simulations. For the worker assignment plans found by the computer model, the authors calculate a significant decrease in time-weighted average (TWA) sound level exposure. The maximum daily dose that any worker is exposed to is reduced by 58.8%, and the maximum TWA value for the workers is reduced by 3.8 dB from the current schedule.
Emergency medicine resident scheduling and patient exposure.	As a result of increasing emergency department census and patient waiting times at the authors' institution, attending physician staffing was increased, followed by a change in resident shift schedule. A study was undertaken to ascertain any change in residents' exposure to patients during the times before and immediately following the staffing and scheduling changes.
Stress at work: the current perspective.	Stress caused by work is costing UK organisations dearly. However, despite numerous appalling statistics and increased publicity around the problem, many organisations are still failing to do anything to reduce it. This article suggests reasons why this is the case and outlines attempts by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) to try to overcome the problem. It also explains the background behind health and safety initiatives for stress, and provides an overview of the guidelines for employers and employees put forward by the HSE in June 2001. Finally, it describes the latest guidelines for work-related stress which resulted from the Hatton v. Sutherland Court of Appeal verdict in February 2002.
Can occupational guidelines for work-rest schedules be based on endurance time data?	Within the European Community, work is in progress to establish occupational guidelines for physical workload, including work-rest schedules. A model has been proposed which relies upon endurance time as a valid estimate of the short- and long-term physiological responses to continuous and intermittent exercise. On the basis of recent results from several Scandinavian research groups, the present paper questions the use of this model as a contribution to occupational guidelines. It is believed that the proposed model has a limited validity as a predictor of endurance time, as an indicator of short-term physiological responses, and as an estimator of risk for musculoskeletal disorders.
Resident duty hours in American neurosurgery.	The unexpected death of Libby Zion, at New York Hospital in 1984, led to a series of investigations that recently resulted in profound changes in resident duty hours. On July 1, 2003, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (the governing body of all residency programs in the United States) mandated the following work hours rules: no more than 80 hours per week, no more than 24 hours of continuous patient care (with an added 6-hour transition period), 1 day in 7 free of patient care responsibilities, and a minimum of 10 rest hours between duty periods. These rules are based on a considerable body of scientific study indicating that sleep loss affects cognitive performance and, possibly, patient care. The new work hours have stimulated vigorous debate, both pro and con. Those arguments are reviewed.
Regulation of junior doctors' work hours: an analysis of British and American doctors' experiences and attitudes.	Regulations of junior doctors' work hours were first enacted in the United States (US) and United Kingdom (UK) over a decade ago, with the goals of improving patient care and doctors' well-being while maintaining a high quality of medical training. This study examines experiences and attitudes regarding the implementation of these regulations among physicians and surgeons at two teaching hospitals, one in South-East England, and the other in New England, US. This paper presents the findings of a survey questionnaire and a series of in-depth interviews administered to a sample of junior doctors and the consultants responsible for their supervision. The study finds that the different policy mechanisms employed in the two countries have had different degrees of success in reducing the work hours of junior doctors. The results also indicate, however, that even in settings in which hours have been reduced significantly, the regulations have only had limited effects on the quality of medical care, junior doctors' well-being, and the quality of medical education. A number of barriers to the success of the regulations in achieving their objectives are identified, and the relative merits of political action and professional self-regulation are discussed. This research suggests that recently enacted policies requiring further reductions in junior doctors' hours in both the US and UK may face similar barriers when implemented. Understanding the lessons that emerge from implementation of the original regulations is essential if future reforms are to succeed and a high-quality system of health care is to be sustained.
The effect of house staff working hours on the quality of obstetric and gynecologic care.	To measure the effect of house staff working hours reforms on the quality of obstetric and gynecologic care.
Comparative review of use of physician assistants in a level I trauma center.	In view of the new residency guidelines, which restrict resident work hours, the use of physician assistants (PAs) for patient care continuity during off-hours of residents may become a common practice. The purpose of this study was to assess the quality of patient care during transition from resident- to PA-assisted trauma program (without residents) and comparative simultaneous support. A retrospective analysis of patient care during two 6-month segments was carried out: during resident-assisted program at a level II trauma center in 1998 and a PA-dedicated trauma program in 1999. With reinvolvement of senior surgical residents, a focused analysis for the last quarter of 2002 was done. Regression analysis indicated the only statistically significant outcome was decreased length of stay (LOS) when patients were transferred directly from emergency center (EC) to floor in 1999. The mean LOS was 2.54 +/- 4.65 compared to 3.4 +/- 5.81, and no statistical difference in other assessments was noted. Focused analysis in 2002 showed 100 per cent participation of PAs during the trauma alert compared to 51 per cent by residents. Substitution of residents with PAs had no impact on patient mortality; however, LOS (from EC to floor), was statistically reduced by 1 day. Trauma programs can benefit with collaboration of residents and PAs in patient care.
Compare the occupational stress and work ability among the police-officers, doctors and teachers]	To compare the occupational stress and work ability in doctors, police-officers and teachers.
Study on work ability and its risk factors in chemical plant workers]	To investigate the status of work ability and occupational stress in chemical plant workers and to ascertain the risk factors affecting work ability.
Does moderate alcohol use affect health-care costs? A propensity analysis of female health-care workers.	To determine differences in health-care costs associated with moderate alcohol consumption among female health-care workers while controlling for other risk factors that may be correlated with alcohol use.
Investigation of correlation between house-staff work hours and prescribing errors.	The possible correlation between the frequency and significance of prescribing errors and the number of hours worked during a 24-hour shift by hospital house staff was studied.
Rehabilitation and return-to-work after laryngectomy: the role of industrial otolaryngologists]	Rehabilitation and return-to-work are important problems for laryngectomized patients. Here, we report 2 cases of laryngectomized middle-aged men, and discuss the role of otolaryngologists from the viewpoint of an industrial physician. The first case is a 55-year-old post-office male clerk, who underwent radical and reconstructive surgery for hypopharyngeal carcinoma. He started light work following 3-month-rest at home after discharge, and fully returned to his previous work 3 years later. The second case is a 50-year-old mailman who also underwent radical and reconstructive surgery for hypopharyngeal carcinoma. He could not return to work because of the recurrence of tumor during rehabilitation. In such cases, comprehensive management including medical, mental and social supports is essential according to the occupational environment. Industrial otolaryngologists should play an important role in rehabilitation and return-to-work of laryngectomized patients.
Influence of working time regulations on the organisation and quality of clinical workflow]	The present lecture is a personal report on changing working conditions for physicians in German hospitals over the last 20 years. Documentation, coding and other administrative requirements have constantly risen and will increase once again from 2004 onwards when the complete reimbursement system in German hospitals will be rearranged on the basis of diagnosis-related groups, though without providing an adequate workforce of professional coders. Moreover, the European Court ruled that any doctor's on-call hours spent in a hospital should be regarded as part of his full working time, which in Germany is presently restricted to an average 38.5 hours a week. Consequently, this will lead to a huge demand of personnel on the one hand and an increasing fragmentation of doctor-patient relationships on the other hand, as there will be a continuous change of doctors on duty. Here, it is outlined that this fragmentation will have a negative impact on treatment quality and education and training of future physicians.
Incidence of self-reported occupational injuries in seafaring--an international study.	Seafaring is known as a high-risk industry. The aims were to describe the incidence of non-fatal injuries among seafarers, including testing the hypothesis that long working hours might result in higher injury rates.
The impact of shift work on the risk and severity of injuries for hospital employees: an analysis using Oregon workers' compensation data.	While past research on health care workers has found that shift work can lead to negative physiological and psychological consequences, few studies have assessed the extent to which it increases the risk of specific work-related injuries, nor quantified and compared associated types, severity and costs.
Relationship of work schedules to gastrointestinal diagnoses, symptoms, and medication use in auto factory workers.	Gastrointestinal (GI) complaints are common in shift workers. This study examines the relationship between work schedules and GI symptoms, medications, and diagnoses.
Time study of nurse's shift work the influence of domestic labor on fatigue after ordinary labor]	The relationship between domestic labor and fatigue following night shift work by nurses was examined. Differences due to the age of the youngest child, which apparently influences housework time, were analyzed.
Effect of job rotation on work demands, workload, and recovery of refuse truck drivers and collectors.	Job rotation is often advocated to reduce workload, but its efficacy has seldom been investigated. The aim of this study is to compare the work demands, workload, and recovery among truck driving, refuse collecting, and rotating between these two jobs, between days and during the day. Three teams of 3 employees each participated in this study. Work demands were assessed by systematic observation of tasks and activities. Workload was quantified by means of heart rate, oxygen uptake, subjective ratings, and urinary excretion rates of catecholamines. Recovery was quantified by excretion rates of catecholamines after work. Job rotation between driving and collecting is an effective measure to reduce physical workload as compared with collecting only and to decrease mental workload as compared with driving only. However, job rotation resulted in increased physical workload as compared with driving only. Job rotation did not increase mental workload as compared with collecting only. No effects were seen on recovery. No differences were found between rotating between days and during the day. Actual or potential applications of this research include the recommendation that before job rotation is introduced, its efficacy be determined in terms of well-chosen workload measures because a reduction in work demands does not directly imply a reduction in workload. Therefore, job rotation might be less effective than expected.
A new model of scheduling in manufacturing: tasks, roles, and monitoring.	For over 3 decades there was a belief that computer-based solutions would "solve" complex industrial scheduling problems, yet most manufacturing organizations still require human contributions for effective scheduling performance. We present a new model of scheduling for the development and implementation of effective scheduling systems within manufacturing companies. The model derives from investigating the work of 7 schedulers in 4 manufacturing environments using a qualitative field study approach, for which novel field-based data collection and analysis methods were developed. The results show that scheduling in practice comprises task, role, and monitoring activities and that the business environment influences a scheduler at work. A new definition of scheduling is presented that includes the significant facilitation and implementation aspects of human scheduling ignored by many computer-based scheduling approaches. The implications for this model extend across the domains of human factors and operations management, especially for the analysis and improvement of existing and new production planning and control processes and enterprise information systems. Actual or potential applications of this research include the analysis, design, and management of planning, scheduling, and control processes in industry; the selection, training, and support of production schedulers; and the allocation of tasks to humans and computer systems in industrial planning, scheduling, and control processes.
The effect of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Duty Hours Policy on plastic surgery resident education and patient care: an outcomes study.	The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Work-Hours Duty Policy became effective on July 1, 2003, mandating the reduction of resident duty work hours. The Baylor College of Medicine Multi-Institutional Integrated Plastic Surgery Program instituted a resident duty work-hours policy on July 1, 2002 (1 year ahead of the national mandate). Outcomes data are needed to facilitate continuous improvements in plastic surgical residency training while maintaining high-quality patient care. To assess the effect of this policy intervention on plastic surgery resident education as measured through the six core competencies and patient/resident safety, the investigators surveyed all categorical plastic surgery residents 6 months after implementation of the policy. This work represents the first empiric study investigating the effect of duty hours reduction on plastic surgery training and education. The categorical plastic surgery residents at the Baylor College of Medicine Multi-Institutional Integrated Plastic Surgery Program completed a 68-item survey on a five-point Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree). Residents were asked to rate multiple parameters based on the ACGME six core competencies, including statements on patient care and clinical/operative duties, resident education, resident quality of life, and resident perceptions on this policy. All surveys were completed anonymously. The sample size was n = 12 (program year 3 through program year 6), with a 100 percent response rate. Univariate and bivariate statistical analysis was conducted with SPSS version 10.0 statistical software. Specifically, interquartile deviations were used to find consensus among resident responses to each statement. Descriptive statistics indicated higher percentages of agreement on a majority of statements in three categories, including patient care and clinical/operative duties, academic duties, and resident quality of life. Using interquartile deviation, the highest levels of consensus among the residents were found in positive statements addressing resident alertness (both in and out of the operative environment), time to read/prepare for cases/conferences, efficacy of the didactic curriculum, and overall satisfaction with this policy for surgery resident education. Residents also felt that their patients favored this work hours policy. In addition, there was high consensus that this policy improved overall patient care. The majority of residents identified a negative effect of this policy through an increase in cross-coverage responsibilities, however, and half of the residents perceived that faculty negatively viewed their unavailability postcall. In addition, no consensus among the residents was achieved regarding perceptions on overall weekly operative experience. Plastic surgery residents perceived that the reduction of resident work hours through adherence to the ACGME guidelines has beneficial effects on patient care and clinical/operative duties, academic duties, and resident quality of life. Residents felt, however, that these benefits may increase cross-coverage workloads. Furthermore, residents were concerned about faculty perception of their changes in postcall duties. In contrast to previously published findings in the general surgery literature, the current results indicate that residents do not believe that this policy negatively affects continuity of patient care. In fact, the current findings suggest that adherence to this policy improves patient care on multiple levels. The effect on the operative experience remains to be elucidated. Further large-scale and longitudinal research design and analysis is warranted to better assess the results of the ACGME resident duty work-hours policy in plastic surgery resident education.
Systematic review: effects of resident work hours on patient safety.	The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) mandated new work hours rules for all residency programs in July 2003.
Has the 80-hour work week increased faculty hours?	The 80-hour work week has affected not only surgical residents but also faculty. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of resident hour restrictions on faculty hours and attitudes.
Meeting the 80-hour work week requirement: what did we cut?	To meet the new accreditation requirement, small programs with limited manpower must make hard decisions to safeguard quality. We devised a system to meet the requirement in our own environment, making the obligatory cuts in educational components as prioritized by the trainees. This study examined what aspect of training is impacted and the residents' perception of the resulting change.
The 80-hour work week: will we have less-experienced graduating surgeons?	Our primary concern when modifying the Mount Carmel Medical Center surgical residency to comply with the "80-hour work week" was the effect on operative experience. Our goal was to measure the impact that work-hour restrictions have on operative volumes and to evaluate the potential benefit of a night rotation to minimize the number of "lost operations."
Health and performance factors in health care shift workers.	To assess the impact of shift work on health care workers.
Working overtime hours: relations with fatigue, work motivation, and the quality of work.	We sought to better understand the relationship between overtime and mental fatigue by taking into account work motivation and the quality of overtime work and studying theoretically derived subgroups.
How many physicians are required in a hospital ward?]	Hospital medical activities are performed in various departments, such as general wards, functional units, outpatients' departments (OPD), and administrative areas. This study examined the possibility of redistributing medical performances from a normal ward to an OPD for an average accident surgery population. It is shown that up to 89% of the medical performances can be produced in an outpatients' clinic (OPC) in spite of only minimal shifts of medical care. The collected data only reflect the picture of routine medical care in accident surgery; in principle, however, the results should apply to other groups of patients, and promote a quality increase in parallel to a cost reduction of the overall hospital treatment.
Balancing continuity of care with residents' limited work hours: defining the implications.	The impact of the new resident work-hours rules on all aspects of patient care and education must be considered. While physician fatigue has taken center stage as the primary motivation behind this movement, the effect of these rules on the continuity of care for hospitalized patients needs to be critically analyzed from the perspectives of patients, physicians, and the health care system. The authors describe a conceptual framework that places continuity at the center and then considers the benefits and drawbacks of preserving continuity from the perspectives of the major stakeholders. They describe the categories of outcomes related to residents' fatigue and sleep deprivation that have been studied. Only a few studies have addressed patient outcomes, while most address resident outcomes. The authors discuss some of the possible solutions, including night float and the British system of shift work, and suggest that these solutions have different effects on each group of stakeholders, including both intended and unintended benefits and harms. Finally, the research agenda that arises from this framework is described. It includes taking into account multiple perspectives, identifying important outcomes, and considering unintended consequences. Using this framework, medical educators may better evaluate previous studies and consider remaining questions.
The Tavistock study of young doctors: report of the pilot phase.	A consultant psychotherapist and an academic psychologist have talked in detail to SHOs about the satisfactions and dissatisfactions of the junior doctor's working life. Sometimes unexpected, the findings point to issues of serious concern.
Effect of shift work on somatoform disorders]	An overview of the literature shows that shift work is linked with an enhanced risk of psychiatric disorders. A number of authors have reported anxious and depressive symptomatology in shift workers, but there are no data about the frequency of somatoform disorders associated with this type of work. Psychosocial stress and low socio-economic status, both often found among shift workers, are regarded as risk factors for somatoform disorders. The connection of shift work and somatoform disorders is discussed with examples of four case reports. It is suggested that shift work, which is known to be associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases, may promote the occurrence of vegetative symptoms, such as feelings of weakness and dizziness, and eventually leads to intensified self-observation, anxiousness and hypochondriasis with predominantly somatic symptoms.
Shiftwork: safety, sleepiness and sleep.	This brief paper reviews the available published literature on shiftwork and safety that allows the relative risk of "accidents" or injuries associated with specific features of shift systems to be estimated. Three main trends in risk are discussed, namely that (i) risk is higher on the night shift, and to a lesser extent the afternoon shift, than on the morning shift, (ii) risk increases over a span of shifts, especially so if they are night shifts, and (iii) risk increases with increasing shift length over eight hours. We discuss that some of these trends are not entirely consistent with predictions derived from considerations of the circadian variations in sleep propensity or rated sleepiness, and consider factors relating to sleep that may underlie the observed trends in risk. Finally, the practical implications of the trends in risk for the design of safer shift systems are discussed.
The nighttime nap strategies for improving night shift work in workplace.	Nighttime napping is an effective measure to prevent adverse effects due to night shift work. A characteristic of nighttime nap is that it can result in considerably deeper sleep. Several studies have shown that taking nighttime naps suppressed increasing sleepiness, decreasing alertness during the period following awaking from a nap, and prevented disturbance of circadian rhythm ("anchor sleep"). The length of daytime sleep after night shift, when combined with a nighttime nap, is shorter than that without nap. This finding might be interpreted as a beneficial effect rather than a negative feature because workers can then spend time engaged in other activities rather than sleeping. Nevertheless, the introduction of nighttime sleep break in the workplace has not been widely accepted. To promote nighttime napping strategy in the workplace, consensus building while acting on conflicting interest is essential. Recently, participatory method for improvement of working condition has expanded worldwide. A characteristic of the activity is using action checklist and group work, and heightening motivation to improvement working condition between worker and manager. Through the activities, nighttime napping strategy would be spread more in the workplaces and play a role as one of the effective tools for improving working conditions, work performance and safety in the future.
Sleepiness of occupational drivers.	Drowsiness and sleeping at the wheel are now identified as the reasons behind fatal crashes and highway accidents caused by occupational drivers. For many years, fatigue has been associated to risk of accidents but the causes of this symptom were unclear. Extensive or nocturnal driving was associated to accidents but few reports differentiated fatigue from sleepiness. In the early nineties, epidemiological data started investigating sleepiness and sleep deprivation as cause of accidents. Sleepiness at the wheel, sleep restriction and nocturnal driving have been incriminated in 20% of traffic accidents. Drugs affecting the central nervous system (i.e., narcotic analgesics, antihistamine drugs), nocturnal breathing disorders and narcolepsy have been also associated with an increasing risk of accidents. Treatments improving daytime vigilance (i.e., nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) reduce significantly the risk of traffic accidents for a reasonable economical cost. Sleep disorders among occupational drivers need to be systematically investigated. Chronic daytime sleepiness is still under diagnosed and sleep disorders (i.e. obstructive sleep apnea syndrome) are not enough explored and treated in this exposed population of sedentary males. Drivers education and work schedules integrating notions of sleep hygiene as well as promotion of sleep medicine could significantly improve road safety.
Light treatment and circadian adaptation to shift work.	Work at unconventional hours can have both long and short term consequences. Shift workers are often required to perform their duties at times that are not favoured by the body's endogenous clock, or circadian pacemaker. A typical night shift worker, for example, may report reductions in alertness and performance during shifts, or significant difficulty attaining sleep of recuperative value in the day, all the while being more likely to develop health complications. The study of circadian physiology has significantly contributed to our current ability to aid the shift worker deal with atypical schedules. We discuss the usefulness of light treatment as a countermeasure for maladaptation to atypical work schedules.
Imbalance between the reality of sleep specialists and the demands of society in Japan.	In contrast to the fruitful achievements of sleep research, sleep medicine has never been properly defined and recognized in Japan. Therefore, it is difficult for any clinician to have a united view as to what constitutes a sleep specialist. The United States (US) has set up sleep medicine as a comprehensive clinical specialty connected with various medical, psychological, scientific and social fields, having sleep physiology that is methodologically represented by polysomnography as a common language. The US system around a core of sleep disorders centers and sleep specialists armed with a comprehensive knowledge of sleep and sleep disorders can not only diagnose and treat patients with sleep disorders, but are also sensitive to the various sleep-related problems at the work place such as circadian related safety issues and productivity. Daytime sleepiness is dangerous in some situations for the individual as well as society. Although this safety issue is an urgent demand in every workplace, sleep medicine has not matured nor established enough to respond to it in Japan. Together with advancement of sleep research, the sleep medicine community should do everything in its power to establish sleep medicine as a practical patient-based clinical field.
International research needs for improving sleep and health of workers.	Research needs in identifying preventive measures dealing with working time arrangements and associated sleep problems are reviewed. These needs are based on the recognition of a range of risk factors for health involving disturbed circadian rhythms leading to various levels of sleep deficits. The review takes account of recent joint change approaches that address both working time arrangements and various relevant intervening factors. As examples of such approaches, voluntary industry-based guidelines for improving shift work are examined. Also reviewed is evidence indicating the effects of improved working time arrangements and sleep hygiene on the tolerance of workers working irregular shifts. Trends in action-oriented risk assessment are further discussed as the effects on health and sleep of these workers may be modified by complex aspects related to working situations, family and social conditions, personal characteristics and social support. Generally relevant are not only the relationships between sleep-affecting factors and health, but also advances in taking the various support measures. The effective use of participatory steps is found important in dealing with working time arrangements and associated health and sleep problems together. It is thus considered important to study (a) the efficacy of joint change approaches addressing complex sleep and health factors, (b) effective procedures for action-oriented health risk assessment in various work life situations, and (c) the relevance of innovative participatory steps to improving health and tolerance of workers. Future research topics mentioned by the participants of the international symposium on night and shift work held in Santos in 2003 are presented, and international efforts to promote research into these aspects in field conditions are discussed. Interactive research involving local people appears crucial.
The future of work hours--the European view.	In Europe the way work hours are handled varies between different countries. However, there are some issues that dominate the discussion in Europe and seem representative for what is happening. One such is the reduction of working hours--which was attempted in several countries but which now seems to be backfiring--probably related to the competition from countries outside Europe. Another area is compressed work hours--the drive towards maximizing the hours per work day in order to increase the number of days off. The health effects are debated--some find clear positive effects. A third area is company oriented flexible work hours, permitting the employer to make moderate changes in work hours when needed. The health impacts have not been evaluated but the loss of individual influence at work is obvious. In some parts of Europe self-determined work hours have been tried with very positive effects. The EU work hour directive is intended to provide uniformity but permits a counterproductive "opting out", creating problems of imbalance.
Toward better sleep for workers: impressions of some needs.	We know there are persons exposed demanding work schedules and sleep loss in almost every occupation or industry, but we still need better population-based information on how many sleepy or inattentive workers there are, where they are, and to what extent they are a risk to themselves or others. The absence of such information, however, does not prevent us from continuing to conduct worksite interventions and demonstrations that will produce good, evidence-based guidelines to help workers and workplace administrators make informed choices about sleep and provide optimal conditions for sleep. In addition, systematic study and publication of how managers and policy-makers accept our research to make worksite changes, and what factors beside our research influence their decisions, would contribute techniques to the greater public health community aiming to translate research results into good practice.
How well do train driver's sleep in relay vans?	Relay working operations typically require two crews of train drivers to work a rotating 8-h schedule for two or more days. While one crew is driving, the other has the opportunity to sleep onboard the train. The current study investigated the impact of relay work on drivers sleep quantity and quality. Fourteen drivers wore wrist activity monitors and completed sleep/wake diaries for 3 d prior to and during short (<48 h) relay trips. Drivers obtained an average of 7.8 h sleep per night while at home, and an average of 4 h sleep per opportunity during the relay trip. Sleep obtained in the relay van was associated with longer sleep onset latencies, lower efficiency and poorer subjective quality than sleep at home. During the relay trip, drivers obtained significantly more sleep during opportunities that occurred in the evening, than those that occurred early morning or during the day. These findings suggest that while drivers are able to obtain sleep during short relay operations, it is of poorer quality than sleep obtained at home. Further, the timing of the sleep opportunities during the relay trip impacts on the quantity and quality of sleep obtained.
The impact of extended leave on sleep and alertness in the Australian rail industry.	In the past, scientific studies have investigated the effects of shift timing and duration on sleep and alertness in the rail industry. To our knowledge no research has been conducted to determine the effects of extended break lengths (>48 h) on these factors. Hence, this study analyses the work and rest schedules of 304 Australian rail employees (mean age 41.3 yr, standard deviation 7.4 yr) to determine the effect of prior break lengths (12-169 h) on sleep and subjective alertness at work after periods of leave. Extended break periods (>48 h) were found to increase the length of the sleep prior to returning to work and reduce the total wake time to the end of the first shift, but did not influence levels of subjective alertness immediately prior to the commencement of the first shift. Research into the influence of longer break periods (>169 h) is needed in order to make definitive conclusions regarding sensible return to work policies after extended leave within the Australian rail industry.
Sleepiness in various shift combinations of irregular shift systems.	The present study examined the occurrence of sleepiness in various shift combinations ending with a night or morning shift. Three weeks' sleep/work shift diary data, collected from 126 randomly selected train drivers and 104 traffic controllers, were used in statistical analyses. The occurrence of sleepiness at work (i.e., Karolinska Sleepiness Scale 7 or higher) was tested with a generalised linear model with repeated measurements including explanatory factors related to shifts, sleep, and individual characteristics. The prevalence of severe sleepiness varied between 25% and 62% in the combinations ending with a night shift and between 12% and 27% in the combinations ending with a morning shift. The occurrence of sleepiness did not, however, systematically vary between the shift combinations in either case. An increased risk for sleepiness was associated with high sleep need and long shift duration in the night shift and with high sleep need, short main sleep period, long shift duration and an early shift starting time in the morning shift. Also having a child was associated with an increased risk for sleepiness in the night shift. The results suggest that the shift history of 24-36 h prior to the night and the morning shift is not strongly associated with the occurrence of sleepiness at work, but there are other factors, such as shift length and starting time and sleep need, that affect a risk for sleepiness at work.
Self-report naps in irregular work schedules.	Few studies have examined napping in irregular work schedules such as those experienced by freight locomotive engineers. The current study examined the effect of napping in irregular work schedules on sleep length and three subjective measures: ability to go to sleep, ability to stay asleep, and a feeling of being well-rested upon awakening. One hundred and seventy-nine freight engineers completed a 14-d activity log, providing information on sleep times and subjective evaluations of sleep. The results indicated that days with naps resulted in significantly more total sleep but less sleep in the main sleep period of the day. The days with naps also resulted in somewhat more difficulty with going to sleep, staying asleep and with feeling well-rested upon awakening. It is important to note, however, that when examining the days with naps, nap length was not significantly correlated with main sleep time, ability to go to sleep, ability to stay asleep, or feeling well-rested upon awakening. These results suggest that napping may be useful when working irregular work schedules if the engineer is willing to accept a slight decrease in ability to go to sleep, stay asleep, and feeling rested.
Sleep deprivation in junior doctors--house officers in Singapore.	House officers are known to endure marked levels of sleep deprivation in administration of their duties. We aim to establish sleep patterns of local house officers while on the job and the impact it might have on their mood and sleepiness state. We also studied their sleep during their final year of medical school and pre-university for identification of any prior sleep deprivation. Questionnaires were used to assess sleep and mood change. Sleepiness levels on the day after call were assessed using the Stamford Sleepiness Scale. Subjects were found to sleep a median of only 1.0 (+/- 2.0) h per night on call and 6.0 h (+/- 1.0) per non-call night. They suffered median of 5 interruptions (+/- 5) during sleep on one night call. Night call was found to adversely affect mood in 89.5% of the subjects while daytime sleepiness levels following call were found to increase the more the time spent at work after call. Subjects were found to have had 6.5 h (+/- 1.0) of sleep per night during final year of medical school and 8.0 h (+/- 1.0) in final year of pre-university. House officers enter the profession chronically sleep-deprived. The call schedule and general work regime further add to the existent sleep deprivation and may have adverse consequences on patient care and doctor's health. This calls for measures to be instituted for provision of proper sleep and work hours for them.
Associations of sleep problems and recent life events with smoking behaviors among female staff nurses in Japanese hospitals.	For the purpose of examining the relation of sleep problems and other possible correlates with smoking among staff nurses in hospitals, the cross-sectional data of a self-administered questionnaire survey for 522 Japanese female staff nurses were reanalyzed. Registered nurses or licensed practical nurses were 82%, while nursing assistants were 18%. The prevalence of current smoking (PCS) was 29%, being higher than that in the general population of Japanese women. The current smokers exhibited a high tendency toward tobacco dependence. Multivariate analyses revealed that PCS was associated with recent frequent night shifts and a large amount of support from coworkers, while the association of a large amount of job control and a feeling of light overnight sleep with PCS was also suggested. The tobacco-dependent tendency was associated with recent life events and the presence of insomnia. It is possible that smoking is a countermeasure against sleepiness caused by the disadaptation to shift-work, or that tobacco-intake pharmacologically disturbs sleep. For decreasing PCS in staff nurses, further research should focus on the relation of smoking with their sleepiness and shift-working system, and also on the process in which major life events develop smoking behaviors.
Actual conditions of work, fatigue and sleep in non-employed, home-based female information technology workers with preschool children.	We conducted a study on time budget and fatigue feelings over a two-month period of 12 non-employed, home-based female workers using computers (mean age 35.2 yr). All of them had at least one preschool child. The actual amount of work done by these women and the related effects on the fatigue feelings and sleep were investigated. The results showed that the work done was characterized by involving many night hours, irrespective of the day of the week. The degree of subjective fatigue was not dependent on the number of hours worked, but affected by the time at which the work of the day was completed. This tendency was notable after one o'clock in the morning when the work was completed. Those who followed such a work pattern took daytime naps, although a quality of the subsequent nighttime sleep taken might be poor. They took a nap around 14:00 but not around 19:00. The sleep strategies were thus shown to be affected by home-based work. A need is suggested to support these workers in adjusting work time distribution and taking sleep patterns adapted to individual conditions.
Improving health, safety, and profits in extended hours operations (shiftwork).	Circadian Technologies, Inc. (CIRCADIAN) is an international consulting firm that for over 20 yr has helped employees better cope with shiftwork, while ensuring their employers reduce costs and maximize profits. This paper describes two of the methods employed to reduce accidents, absenteeism, and turnover, while improving morale and productivity in extended hour operations (shiftwork). Shiftworkers rarely receive on-the-job training to help them cope better with the rigors of working nights, evenings, and early mornings. A pre- and post-training study by CIRCADIAN demonstrated improvements in health and fatigue indices, and an increase in daytime sleep length. Companies who provide shiftwork lifestyle training also have lower rates of absenteeism and turnover compared to companies that do not provide training. The second intervention described in this paper is a novel method of shift scheduling. There are thousands of potential schedules, so how does a company choose the best schedule for their facility? The answer lies in allowing employees to be involved in the process of selection. This results in a workforce that experiences less fatigue, turnover and absenteeism, and higher morale.
The Napping Company: bringing science to the workplace.	Increasing emphasis is currently being given to the importance of bringing knowledge gained from science into places where people live and work, in order to increase the impact science has on the general public's quality of life. Scientific findings about the positive impact of napping on mood and performance are an example of research generated knowledge that needs to be brought to the workplace. A major goal of the Napping Company (www.napping.com) is to bring the science of napping to the workers and the workplace so that employees and employers can act on this knowledge and change worker napping behavior and employer napping policies. The present paper overviews the challenges inherent in making scientific knowledge useful to how we live our lives. The Napping Company is guided by five principles of knowledge transfer in the company's attempts to disseminate and increase utilization of napping research. Examples are given to illustrate how the Napping Company has used these principles to bridge the gap between napping science and nap behavior and policies in the workplace.
Total mortality and cause-specific mortality of Swedish shift- and dayworkers in the pulp and paper industry in 1952-2001.	The study investigated the relationship between shiftwork and mortality, both total mortality and cause-specific mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke, and diabetes. Methods The cohort consisted of 2354 shiftworkers and 3088 dayworkers in two pulp and paper manufacturing plants. The mortality of the cohort was monitored from 1 January 1952 to 31 December 2001 by linkage to the national Cause of Death Register. Groups of workers defined by different durations of shiftwork exposure were compared with dayworkers by calculating standardized relative rates (SRR).
Simple modifications of the current curriculum to enhance educational experience.	Changes in medical practice and in the financing of hospital care have resulted in a narrowing spectrum of adult medical illness among hospitalized patients. Residency training based primarily in the hospital underemphasizes many diseases and disorders that are treated exclusively at ambulatory sites. Curriculum modifications should allow for increased training time for residents in the ambulatory care setting. Reducing clinical inpatient service demands on residents and alleviating the attendant stress will allow more time for such educational experiences. The Medical College of Virginia has had recent experience with three modifications to the curriculum, which are intended to accomplish these ends: a specialized unit for inpatient services, which is not staffed by interns; a reorganization of the daily inpatient care schedule; and a modified "night float" team.
The night float system: ensuring educational benefit.	The ACGME mandated a change in resident work hours effective July 2003. We postulated that taking a block of night call would provide an opportunity for residents to improve clinical decision-making without detracting from operative experience.
Resident work hour limits and patient safety.	This study evaluates the effect of resident physician work hour limits on surgical patient safety.
Melatonin treatment of pediatric residents for adaptation to night shift work.	Night float rotations are used in residency training programs to reduce residents' sleep deprivation. Night shift work, however, is accompanied by deleterious effects on sleep, mood, and attention.
Daylight exposure and the other predictors of burnout among nurses in a University Hospital.	The purpose of the study was to investigate if daylight exposure in work setting could be placed among the predictors of job burnout. The sample was composed of 141 nurses who work in Akdeniz University Hospital in Antalya, Turkey. All participants were asked to complete a personal data collection form, the Maslach Burnout Inventory, the Work Related Strain Inventory and the Work Satisfaction Questionnaire to collect data about their burnout, work-related stress (WRS) and job satisfaction (JS) levels in addition to personal characteristics. Descriptive statistics, parametric and non-parametric tests and correlation analysis were used in statistical analyses. Daylight exposure showed no direct effect on burnout but it was indirectly effective via WRS and JS. Exposure to daylight at least 3h a day was found to cause less stress and higher satisfaction at work. Suffering from sleep disorders, younger age, job-related health problems and educational level were found to have total or partial direct effects on burnout. Night shifts may lead to burnout via work related strain and working in inpatient services and dissatisfaction with annual income may be effective via job dissatisfaction. This study confirmed some established predictors of burnout and provided data on an unexplored area. Daylight exposure may be effective on job burnout.
The influence of age, work schedule and personality on morningness dimension.	The effects of age, work schedule and personality were investigated in 908 subjects by means of a reduced scale of Morningness-Eveningness-Questionnaire which contains questions regarding only the Morningness dimension. The results obtained for the work schedule and age maximized the inter-groups differences and the effects as compared to the original questionnaire. Extraversion correlated negatively with Morningness scores, while Sex and Neuroticism were not significantly related to this dimension.
General practitioner non-principals benefit from flexible working.	The purpose of this study is to explore non-principals' working patterns and attitudes to work.
Tyrosine and its potential use as a countermeasure to performance decrement in military sustained operations.	We review the biochemistry and physiological role of the amino acid tyrosine in normal and stressful situations such as military sustained operations. Sustained operations consist of continuous work periods exceeding 12 h and often involve sleep loss and fatigue. These, in turn, can lead to stress, anxiety, mood deterioration, and performance decrement. Experimental data in the literature suggest that tyrosine, a precursor of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine, may be useful in counteracting any stress-related performance decrement and mood deterioration in the following way. First, various forms of stress induce brain depletion of catecholamines, especially norepinephrine, in animals. Second, brain norepinephrine levels are closely related to stress-induced performance decrement in animals. Third, the administration of tyrosine may minimize or reverse stress-induced performance decrement by increasing depleted brain norepinephrine levels. The types of performance degradation expected in military sustained operations and the potential physiological role tyrosine might play in improving mood and performance are discussed.
Update on disorders of sleep and the sleep--wake cycle.	Wakefulness and sleep are antagonistic states competing for the domain of brain activity. Non-REM sleep and REM sleep are different states of being, sustained by activity in brainstem nuclei, hypothalamus, basal forebrain, and thalamus. Such complex phenomenology is subject to many alterations grouped in the new International Classification of Sleep Disorders. The insomnias are the result of interacting psychosocial, psychophysiologic, neurodevelopmental, and medical factors. Proper perspective of each factor provides the clinical strategies to approach medically the symptom-complex of insomnia. The most common cause of daytime hypersomnia is chronic sleep deprivation. Obstructive sleep apnea responds to nasal CPAP, but the failure rate approaches 30%. In intolerant patients BiPAP and surgical remedies should be considered. Motor and behavioral abnormalities of sleep may be linked to REM sleep as in the REM sleep behavior disorder. Paroxysmal nocturnal dystonia and nocturnal wanderings may be associated with epilepsy. Intrusions of one state of being (wakefulness, non-REM sleep, and REM sleep) into another result in mixed, poorly defined, or only partially developed states. Dissociation of states may be responsible for confusional arousals, hallucinations, and cateplexy. Senile degeneration of the suprachiasmatic nuclei may underlie the circadian rhythm changes in old age and the "sundown" syndrome in demented patients. Misalignment of the hypothalamic pacemaker causes dysregulation of sleep-related physiologic and behavioral variables. Exposure to bright light retrains the pacemaker in night-shift workers, transmeridian travelers, and in patients with seasonal affective syndrome. Benzodiazepine compounds are very effective hypnotics, but should be used sparingly in the elderly to avoid falls, memory lapses, and aggravation of a preexisting sleep apnea syndrome. Sleep laboratory evaluations are indicated in patients with hypersomnia, suspected sleep apnea syndrome, motor-behavioral disorders of sleep, and in many individuals complaining of insomnia.
Does the current use of junior doctors in the United Kingdom affect the quality of medical care?	Current proposals in the U.K. envisage a reduction in both junior staff numbers and the hours which they work. The proponents of change argue that this will improve patient care, although there are also opposing arguments, based mainly on the need to maintain continuity of care and ensure juniors gain sufficient clinical experience. By means of a literature review and interviews with junior doctors, this paper examines the effect of the existing system of hospital medical staffing on quality of care. There is evidence that the existing system reduces the quality of care, principally through mistakes associated with inadequate supervision, and lowered humanity of care due to tiredness. The training value of night-time and weekend work is low, and many doctors find it unsatisfying. In contrast, many doctors value providing continuity of care and a few appreciate the opportunity to gain unsupervised experience. Overall, the disadvantages of the existing system outweight the advantages, and change is required to improve the quality of care. There are, however, several obstacles to change, and there are doubts about the extent to which the current proposals will be implemented.
Changes in occupational status following cancer. An empirical study on occupational rehabilitation]	The importance of vocational integration has increased during the last years, whereas an analysis of the literature shows, that research in this field has been neglected especially in german speaking countries. This study investigates the situation and the problems of vocational integration after cancer. 380 former patients with different diagnoses treated in a university medical center have been asked by a self developed questionnaire for their experiences in treatment and medical rehabilitation, their actual impairment in physical and vocational functioning, their estimation of rehabilitation success, their actual employment problems and the changes of job conditions due to cancer. As the results show, more than one third of the sample returned to work often reducing working time or changing their job. Especially older patients with worse prognoses have been retired early. Special programs of vocational rehabilitation are not used by patients we examined, whereas programs of medical rehabilitation are used showing great differences between diagnostic groups. The return to work is influenced by age, tumor localisation, prognosis and the former status in job. The results are discussed with regard to the problems of psychosocial rehabilitation of cancer patients.
Postural control after a night without sleep.	The present study analysed the efficiency of postural control after 12 h of nocturnal forced wakefulness using Romberg's test comprising 1 min of recording with eyes-open and 1 min of recording with eyes-closed, with a 1 min break between the two sessions. Our aim was to see if the decreased postural control efficiency after a sleepless night was unspecific (in both eyes-closed and eyes-open conditions) or selective (in only one of the conditions). A total of 55 students spent a whole night awake at our laboratory and were tested at 22:00 and 08:00 h. In general, the results showed that postural sway increased, performing the recording from eyes-open to eyes-closed condition. The statokinesigram length (SL or efficiency of the postural system) increased after the sleepless night, while in eyes-open condition, the length in function of surface (LFS or accuracy of postural control) and Romberg's index (or contribution of vision to maintain posture) significantly decreased. This could indicate that after a night without sleep, there is a slower elaboration of visual inputs in the postural control process. On the basis of these results, the effects of sleep deprivation on cognitive performance were considered from a neuropsychological point of view.
The effect of work hour restrictions on the education of orthopaedic surgery residents.	In 2005 the Academic Leadership Group of the American Orthopaedic Association surveyed orthopaedic program directors, chairs, and members of the Resident Leadership Forum to gather information about the effect of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education work-hour restrictions on resident education. We compared these results with a similar survey performed 2 years ago. Ninety-four program directors and chairs and 59 senior residents responded to this survey. Overall, the respondents thought the duty hour restrictions had a negative impact on orthopaedic residency education but less so than in the previous survey. This conclusion was based on perceived negative effects on professionalism, resident operative experience, continuity of care, and increased workload for the faculty. Senior residents who worked before and after the work-hour limitations were instituted were more concerned about the negative effects than junior residents. Residents did seem more rested and content but not better prepared or necessarily more attentive. Respondents were not of the opinion resident performance had improved as measured by perceptions of performance on standardized tests. Orthopaedic departments had adapted to the work-hour limitations by scheduling night float rotations, converting in-house call to home call, and by hiring additional personnel in the form of physician extenders.
Shift work, light at night, and breast cancer on Long Island, New York.	The hypothesized association between breast cancer and circadian disruption was evaluated in the Electromagnetic Fields and Breast Cancer on Long Island Study. Participants included 576 women with breast cancer diagnosed from August 1996 to June 1997 and 585 population-based controls (87% and 83% participation rates, respectively) aged < 75 years and living in the same Long Island, New York, home for > or = 15 years. An in-person interview ascertained light-at-night exposure histories through shift work (previous 15 years) and at home (previous 5 years). Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were estimated by unconditional multivariate logistic regression. Breast cancer was not associated with overall shift work (odds ratio (OR) = 1.04, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.79, 1.38) or evening shift work (OR = 1.08, 95% CI: 0.81, 1.44). However, overnight shift workers were at lower risk than women never working shifts (OR = 0.55, 95% CI: 0.32, 0.94). Women who frequently turned on lights at home during sleep hours (> or = twice/week and > or = twice/night) had increased risks (OR = 1.65, 95% CI: 1.02, 2.69). The latter results suggest positive associations with residential light-at-night exposure, or they could reflect response biases. Furthermore, overall and evening shift work were not significant factors, and analyses of overnight shift workers yielded reduced risk estimates. The study thus provides mixed evidence for the light-at-night hypothesis.
Observations of residents' work activities for 24 consecutive hours: implications for workflow redesign.	To examine resident workflow as part of an institutional approach to redesigning the processes of health care delivery.
Critical care nurses--perceptions of 12-h shifts.	Twelve-hour shifts have been illustrated in the literature as being a highly contentious shift pattern. However, it has also been highlighted that there is a distinct paucity of literature solely related to such a shift pattern in critical care areas, where there is high activity and a requirement for multiple and highly significant decision-making situations. It was therefore identified that such an area deserved further exploration.
Time of day effects on the incidence of anesthetic adverse events.	We hypothesized that time of day of surgery would influence the incidence of anesthetic adverse events (AEs).
Aircrew fatigue in trans-Atlantic morning and evening flights.	The aim of the investigation was to compare sleepiness and sleep on westward morning and evening flights. Seven morning-crew pilots and seven evening-crew pilots participated. Data were collected before, during, and after outward-bound (westward) and homeward-bound (eastward) flights across six time zones. A sleep/wake diary (with repeated sleepiness and performance ratings) and wrist actigraphy were used for data collection. Maximum sleep was obtained after return and minimum sleep before the outward-bound flights. Actigraphy measures and sleep efficiency over the course of the study showed no significant differences between the morning and evening crews. There was a trend for a significant effect of morning vs. evening flight for time with heavy eyelids, with the homeward-bound flight showing more time with heavy eyelids. There were no significant differences between morning and evening crews with regard to napping during the flight. The duration of wakefulness was longer for the evening flight crew. There were significant interactions for Karolinska sleepiness scale (KSS) self-ratings on both the outward-bound and homeward-bound flights, and KSS was elevated during a considerable portion of the evening flights. Rated performance showed a significant time effect, but there was no difference in self-ratings between morning and evening crews. Evening flights involve higher levels of sleepiness than morning flights, presumably because of the close proximity in time to the circadian trough of alertness.
A compromise phase position for permanent night shift workers: circadian phase after two night shifts with scheduled sleep and light/dark exposure.	Night shift work is associated with a myriad of health and safety risks. Phase-shifting the circadian clock such that it is more aligned with night work and day sleep is one way to attenuate these risks. However, workers will not be satisfied with complete adaptation to night work if it leaves them misaligned during days off. Therefore, the goal of this set of studies is to produce a compromise phase position in which individuals working night shifts delay their circadian clocks to a position that is more compatible with nighttime work and daytime sleep yet is not incompatible with late nighttime sleep on days off. This is the first in the set of studies describing the magnitude of circadian phase delays that occurs on progressively later days within a series of night shifts interspersed with days off. The series will be ended on various days in order to take a "snapshot" of circadian phase. In this set of studies, subjects sleep from 23:00 to 7:00 h for three weeks. Following this baseline period, there is a series of night shifts (23:00 to 07:00 h) and days off. Experimental subjects receive five 15 min intermittent bright light pulses (approximately 3500 lux; approximately 1100 microW/cm2) once per hour during the night shifts, wear sunglasses that attenuate all visible wavelengths--especially short wavelengths ("blue-blockers")--while traveling home after the shifts, and sleep in the dark (08:30-15:30 h) after each night shift. Control subjects remain in typical dim room light (<50 lux) throughout the night shift, wear sunglasses that do not attenuate as much light, and sleep whenever they want after the night shifts. Circadian phase is determined from the circadian rhythm of melatonin collected during a dim light phase assessment at the beginning and end of each study. The sleepiest time of day, approximated by the body temperature minimum (Tmin), is estimated by adding 7 h to the dim light melatonin onset. In this first study, circadian phase was measured after two night shifts and day sleep periods. The Tmin of the experimental subjects (n=11) was 04:24+/-0.8 h (mean+/-SD) at baseline and 7:36+/-1.4 h after the night shifts. Thus, after two night shifts, the Tmin had not yet delayed into the daytime sleep period, which began at 08:30 h. The Tmin of the control subjects (n=12) was 04:00+/-1.2 h at baseline and drifted to 4:36+/-1.4 h after the night shifts. Thus, two night shifts with a practical pattern of intermittent bright light, the wearing of sunglasses on the way home from night shifts, and a regular sleep period early in the daytime, phase delayed the circadian clock toward the desired compromise phase position for permanent night shift workers. Additional night shifts with bright light pulses and daytime sleep in the dark are expected to displace the sleepiest time of day into the daytime sleep period, improving both nighttime alertness and daytime sleep but not precluding adequate sleep on days off.
Criteria and methods used for the assessment of fitness for work: a systematic review.	The main findings from reports published in scientific journals on the criteria and methods used to assess fitness for work were reviewed. Systematic searches were made using internet engine searches (1966-2005) with related keywords. 39 reports were identified, mostly from the US and western Europe. Assessment of fitness for work is defined by most as the evaluation of a worker's capacity to work without risk to their own or others' health and safety. It is mainly assessed at recruitment (pre-offer or post-offer), and when changes of work or health conditions occur. Five main criteria used by occupational doctors to evaluate fitness for work were identified: the determination of worker's capacity and worker's risk in relation to his or her workplace, as well as ethical, economic and legal criteria. Most authors agreed that assessment tools used need to be specific and cost-effective, and probably none gives unequivocal answers. Outcomes from fitness for work assessments range from "fit" to "unfit", with other possible intermediate categories such as "fit subject to work modifications", "fit with restrictions" or "conditionally fit (temporarily, permanently)". Workplace modifications to improve or adjust working conditions must always be considered. There is confusion about the decision-making process to be used to judge about fitness for work. There is very scarce scientific evidence based on empirical data, probably because there are no standard or valid methodologies for all professions and circumstances.
Improving nursing shift-to-shift report.	In 2002, the Winnipeg Regional Health Authority commissioned an external review for improvements to patient care. From this review arose the Achieving Benchmarks through Collaboration Project, which was composed of 32 projects and a number of subprojects. One such subproject dealt with the reconfiguration of the nursing shift-to-shift report. Its mandate was to improve report, thus making it more efficient, effective, and consistent. This article is a review of this reconfiguration.
Melatonin: therapeutic and clinical utilization.	Melatonin, acting through melatonin receptors, is involved in numerous physiological processes including circadian entrainment, blood pressure regulation, oncogenesis, retinal physiology, seasonal reproduction, ovarian physiology, immune function and most recently in inducing osteoblast differentiation. Moreover, melatonin was proved to be a potent-free radical scavenger and a broad-spectrum antioxidant. More research is required into the effects of therapeutically modulating the melatoninergic system on circadian haemodynamics and rhythm under varying physiopathological conditions and the possible impact on morbidity and mortality in humans.
Distinguishing between overtime work and long workhours among full-time and part-time workers.	This study aimed at disentangling the effects of overtime hours from those of long workhours. For part-time workers, overtime work is not intertwined with long workhours as it is for full-time workers. Therefore, part-time and full-time employees were compared with regard to the association between overtime and well-being (fatigue and work motivation). Such comparisons may also shed more light on the psychological meaning of overtime work for part-time and full-time workers.
Anesthesiologists in France]	We review some anesthesiologist's curriculum and demographic characteristics in France to the community of Japanese anesthesiologists. To become a certified anesthesiologist and an intensive care physician currently requires six years' medical education, passing national medical examination, and five years' special training as an intern of anesthesiology and intensive care. This educational course was started in 1984. There are 7942 certified anesthesiologists in France in 1999. The average age is 45.9 years and the ratio of female is 35.3%. Approximately two thirds of certified anesthesiologists are working in public institutions. 89% is full-time workers. More than half of certified anesthesiologists actually participate in daily intensive care practice. The number of certified anesthesiologists has been increasing gradually totaling 10,062 persons in 2005. The number of certified anesthesiologists per ten thousands general population is 1.7 persons and the corresponding ratio to all medical doctors is 4.8%. Working hours and holidays are regulated by the French Labour Law. The anaesthesiologist often works in a team with a nurse anaesthetist. The number of certified anesthesiologists in France is larger than that in Japan. Management of anesthesia in France seems to have an advantage in manpower.
Professional development opportunities in changing times.	At a time when jobs are in jeopardy and budgets for educational courses and study days have been cut, it is tempting for nurses to neglect their professional development. This article aims to inspire nurses to look for ways of enhancing their professional expertise so that they can continue to improve patient care and take advantage of future career opportunities.
Salivary markers of work stress in an emergency team of urban police (1 degree step).	Stress is usually defined as the experience of negative events or the perceptions of distress and negative affect that are associated with the inability to cope with them. The parameter most suitable for large-scale field studies is the determination of endocrine activity by measurement of salivary cortisol. The aim of the present study is to identify the presence of sources of stress in an emergency team of urban police and to objective such stress using the PSS (Professional Stress Scale) test and bioumoral markers as salivary cortisol and interleukin 1 /f (IL-IB).
Optimal shift duration and sequence: recommended approach for short-term emergency response activations for public health and emergency management.	Since September 11, 2001, and the consequent restructuring of the US preparedness and response activities, public health workers are increasingly called on to activate a temporary round-the-clock staffing schedule. These workers may have to make key decisions that could significantly impact the health and safety of the public. The unique physiological demands of rotational shift work and night shift work have the potential to negatively impact decisionmaking ability. A responsible, evidence-based approach to scheduling applies the principles of circadian physiology, as well as unique individual physiologies and preferences. Optimal scheduling would use a clockwise (morning-afternoon-night) rotational schedule: limiting night shifts to blocks of 3, limiting shift duration to 8 hours, and allowing 3 days of recuperation after night shifts.
Health impact assessment of "white-collar exemption" in Japan]	This work conducted a health impact assessment (HIA) of the Japanese Government's proposal concerning the introduction of so called "white-collar exemption" into the Japanese labor market. We adopted the Merseyside model and performed a rapid health impact assessment to assess the potential health effects of white-collar exemption. In this HIA, several health determinants which may possibly be affected, both positively and negatively, were identified based on experts' judgments. Literature evidence was assessed using PubMed and other databases. In addition, we searched for the opinions of those affected by white-collar exemption from internet web sites, and six concerns were identified. Long working hours were identified as the most serious concern by both experts and those affected. White-collar exemption may increase irregular working patterns which may be related to sleep disorder, stress, and cardiovascular disease. Family function and social participation will also be affected by irregular working patterns. On the other hand, in terms of stress, white-collar exemption may benefit from a higher degree of job control. There are possibilities that white-collar exemption may enable an improved work-life balance and enable access of some groups of the population, such as people with disabilities or parents looking after children, greater access to the labour market. However, it is uncertain whether the benefits of white-collar exemption would overcome those of the current free-time or flex-time systems. The present work provides a wide range of health impacts of white-collar exemption, and will hopefully attract the attentions of decision-makers and those likely to be affected in order to contribute to policy-making.
Work schedule during pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.	There is inconsistent evidence as to whether work schedule (including rotating shifts and night work) can affect reproductive outcomes.
About appropriate staffing.	Fatigue and its impact on the individual Registered Nurse is a complex and individual occurrence. It is, however, a safety and ethical issue. Nursing must work together so nurses do not feel the need to work additional hours or jobs to meet reasonable financial needs. Nursing must also not punish nurses that refuse to work overtime but accept their decision as one made with the best interests of the patient at heart. The question needs to be asked, "Is having a nurse working fatigued a greater threat to patient and nurse safety than not having anyone present at all? Let's make sure we put the patient's well-being first, which in this instance means putting our own well-beings first also.
Shiftwork. Consequences and considerations.	1. The shiftworker's inability to adapt to shiftwork schedules can lead to a loss of physical and psychological well being, and can produce negative safety and performance consequences. 2. The factors that contribute to the intolerance of working shiftwork schedules are complex and interrelated and include host variables (i.e., circadian rhythms) and environmental variables (i.e., type of shifts worked). 3. The most direct and consistent effect of working shiftwork is the impairment of the quality and quantity of sleep. 4. Interventions should include a program that monitors workers' tolerance to shiftwork and provides information and recommendations for employees to effectively manage a lifestyle that incorporates nighttime work schedules.
A review of studies concerning effects of sleep deprivation and fatigue on residents' performance.	Possible effects of sleep deprivation and fatigue on the performance and well-being of residents have received little scientific examination until recently. This article is a review of the studies on this topic published since 1970. All those studies that dealt with residents' moods and attitudes demonstrated deleterious effects of sleep deprivation and fatigue. The implications of this finding for patient care deserve exploration. Residents' acuity on performance tests requiring prolonged vigilance tended to deteriorate with acute sleep loss, while their performances on most brief psychomotor tests measuring manual dexterity, reaction times, and short-term recall were not adversely affected. The data presently available suggest that sleep-deprived or fatigued house officers can compensate for sleep loss in crises or other novel situations. However, sleep-deprived residents may be more prone to errors on routine, repetitive tasks and tasks that require sustained vigilance, which form a substantial portion of residents' workload. The authors concur with the recommendation of the Executive Council of the Association of American Medical Colleges that the total working hours for residents should not exceed 80 hours per week averaged over four weeks.
Psychostimulants and military operations.	Sleep-deprived individuals appear to have decreased psychological and physical capabilities. Studies have shown how major psychological aspects, such as alertness, complex mental performance, and memory, are strongly affected by sleep deprivation. Military use of psychostimulants dates back many years, especially in units that operate over long hours and deprive soldiers of sleep. During prolonged military operations, pilots are regularly kept awake for hours and days without fulfilling their biological sleep requirements. This consequently affects their natural circadian rhythm. This article deals with both the benefits and the side effects of two kinds of psychostimulants, namely, dextroamphetamine, which is more popular and is most widely used, and modafinil, which is a relatively newer type. There is growing evidence that modafinil has fewer side effects, in comparison with its predecessor dextroamphetamine, while still maintaining all of the latter's beneficial characteristics.
The public health and safety consequences of sleep disorders.	Sleep deprivation and medical disorders of sleep are common in today's society and have significant public health implications. In this article, we address 3 specific issues related to the public health and safety consequences of sleep disorders. First, we review data that has linked sleep restriction to a variety of adverse physiologic and long-term health outcomes including all-cause mortality, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Second, we will review recent data that has demonstrated that therapy for obstructive sleep apnea (the most common respiratory disorder of sleep) is an extremely efficient use of healthcare resources (in terms of dollars spent per quality adjusted life year gained), and compares favorably with other commonly funded medical therapies. Finally, we will review data that illustrate the potential adverse patient and occupational safety impacts of the extreme work schedules of housestaff (physicians in training).
Factors affecting cancer survivors' employment and work ability.	Due to the improved prognosis of many forms of cancer, an increasing number of cancer survivors are both willing and able to return to work after their treatment. This has increased interest in studying work and cancer-related issues. The purpose of this paper is to give an overview of research on the impact of cancer on employment and work ability, on the effect of psychosocial factors on survivors' well-being, and to indicate research needs for the future.
Shaping the light/dark pattern for circadian adaptation to night shift work.	This is the second in a series of simulated night shift studies designed to achieve and subsequently maintain a compromise circadian phase position between complete entrainment to the daytime sleep period and no phase shift at all. We predict that this compromise will yield improved night shift alertness and daytime sleep, while still permitting adequate late night sleep and daytime wakefulness on days off. Our goal is to delay the dim light melatonin onset (DLMO) from its baseline phase of approximately 21:00 to our target of approximately 3:00. Healthy young subjects (n=31) underwent three night shifts followed by two days off. Two experimental groups received intermittent bright light pulses during night shifts (total durations of 75 and 120 min per night shift), wore dark sunglasses when outside, slept in dark bedrooms at scheduled times after night shifts and on days off, and received outdoor light exposure upon awakening from sleep. A control group remained in dim room light during night shifts, wore lighter sunglasses, and had unrestricted sleep and outdoor light exposure. After the days off, the DLMO of the experimental groups was approximately 00:00-1:00, not quite at the target of 3:00, but in a good position to reach the target after subsequent night shifts with bright light. The DLMO of the control group changed little from baseline. Experimental subjects performed better than control subjects during night shifts on a reaction time task. Subsequent studies will reveal whether the target phase is achieved and maintained through more alternations of night shifts and days off.
Detrimental effects of variable work shifts on quality of sleep, general health and work performance.	The aim of this study was to explore the detrimental effects of working a varying pattern of 8-hour shifts on quality of sleep, general health and work performance.
The effect of shift rotation on variations of cortisol, fatigue and sleep in sound engineers.	The aim was to study the effect of rotation direction on the time-of-day variations of cortisol, fatigue and sleep in sound engineers broadcasting in a life show. The salivary cortisol and ratings of stress, sleepiness and fatigue were followed at three hour intervals in 25 sound engineers: 13 working very fast forward-rotating shifts and 12 working very fast backward-rotating shifts. Cortisol was assessed with radioimmunological kits. The participants reported for stress symptoms and filled sleep diary. Cortisol retained the typical diurnal pattern. The rotation direction interacted with the shift significantly and as a result higher cortisol values during the morning and night shifts in the backward rotating group were found as well as worse quality of sleep. Higher salivary cortisol during morning and night shifts and worse quality of sleep in engineers working very fast backward-rotating shifts may be an indication for insufficient recovery.
The effect of occupation and industry on the injury risks from demanding work schedules.	Employees working in nonstandard shifts and long-hour schedules have an increased risk for job-related injuries and illnesses. This study estimates the extent of that risk among various occupations and industries.
Working conditions and health status of child workers: cross-sectional study of the students at an apprenticeship school in Kocaeli.	Child labor remains a widespread phenomenon in today's world. The purpose of the present study was to describe the working conditions and health status of child workers in Kocaeli.
Job strain and other work conditions: relationships with psychological distress among civil servants in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.	In developing countries, traditional sources of employment and work practices have changed rapidly and work environment has appeared as an important factor associated with an increased prevalence of mental disorders in these countries.
Assessment of salivary cortisol as stress marker in ambulance service personnel: comparison between shifts working on mobile intensive care unit and patient transport ambulance.	The aim of this study was to describe and compare salivary cortisol of ambulance personnel on days with different work demands as well as to correlate the individual perception of demands to the physiological outcome cortisol.
Circadian rhythmicity and sleep of aircrew during polar schedules.	Sleep and circadian rhythms of aircrew were studied during a 7-d polar schedule operated between London and Tokyo. Sleep, rectal temperature, and subjective alertness were recorded for 2 d before departure during the schedule, and for 10 d after the return. Changes in sleep during the early part of the trip were due to sleep loss on the outward journey, but later these changes were related to the displacement of the circadian rhythm. The acrophases of the circadian rhythms of temperature were delayed by the outward journey, and amplitudes were reduced throughout the trip. During the return, aircrew reported high levels of tiredness which persisted until the second recovery night. Though the amounts of sleep obtained during the schedule were satisfactory for the aircrew as a group, some crewmembers experienced difficulties. Realignment of circadian rhythms was attained by an advance of the circadian phase in eight aircrew and by a delay in three, and resynchronization was achieved in all cases within 6 d.
Does graded return-to-work improve sick-listed workers' chance of returning to regular working hours?	Using Danish register and survey data, we examine the effect of a national graded return-to-work program on the probability of sick-listed workers returning to regular working hours. During program participation, the sick-listed worker works fewer hours and receives the normal hourly wage for the hours worked and sickness benefit for the hours off work. When the worker's health improves, working hours are increased until the sick-listed worker is able to work regular hours. Taking account of unobserved differences between program participants and non-participants, we find that participation in the program significantly increases the probability of returning to regular working hours.
The impact of prolonged continuous wakefulness on resident clinical performance in the intensive care unit: a patient simulator study.	To evaluate the impact of prolonged continuous wakefulness on resident performance under controlled experimental conditions.
Age-related safety in professional heavy vehicle drivers: a literature review.	With Australia facing a looming shortage of heavy vehicle drivers the question is raised as to whether it is desirable or prudent to encourage older professional heavy vehicle drivers to remain in the transport sector for longer, particularly those of heavy vehicles or recruit drivers of a younger age.
The prevalence of short sleep duration by industry and occupation in the National Health Interview Survey.	To explore whether employment in industries likely to have non-standard work schedules (e.g., manufacturing and service) and occupations with long work-weeks (e.g., managerial/professional, sales, and transportation) is associated with an increased risk of short sleep duration.
What do gastroenterology trainees want: recognition, remuneration or recreation?	Occupational psychologists have identified three factors important in motivating physicians: financial reward, academic recognition, time off.
Early effects of resident work-hour restrictions on patient safety: a systematic review and plea for improved studies.	since the inception of the eighty-hour work week, work hour restrictions have incited considerable debate. Work hour policies were designed to prevent medical errors and to reduce patient morbidity and mortality. It is unclear whether work hour restrictions have been helpful in medicine in general and in orthopaedic surgery specifically. This systematic review of the literature was designed to determine the success of these restrictions in terms of patient mortality, medical errors, and complications.
Quality of life and educational benefit among orthopedic surgery residents: a prospective, multicentre comparison of the night float and the standard call systems.	Given recent evolving guidelines regarding postcall clinical relief of residents and emphasis on quality of life, novel strategies are required for implementing call schedules. The night float system has been used by some institutions as a strategy to decrease the burden of call on resident quality of life in level-1 trauma centres. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are differences in quality of life, work-related stressors and educational experience between orthopedic surgery residents in the night float and standard call systems at 2 level-1 trauma centres.
Shift and night work and long working hours--a systematic review of safety implications.	In order to devise effective preventive strategies, it is important to study workplace stressors that might increase the risk of workplace accidents - both affecting workers themselves as well as causing harm to third-parties. The aim of this report is to provide a systematic, updated overview and scientific review of empirical research regarding accidents in relation to long work hours and shift work, primarily based on epidemiological studies.
Differences in public belief and reality in the care of operative patients in a teaching hospital.	The accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) restricts residents from working more than 80 hours per week averaged over a 4-week period. No such restriction exists, however, for attending surgeons. Little exploration has been done of the public's perception of the number of hours that surgeons work and how residents work with the staff surgeons at a teaching institution.
Efficacy of a workplace-based weight loss program for overweight male shift workers: the Workplace POWER (Preventing Obesity Without Eating like a Rabbit) randomized controlled trial.	To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of a workplace-based weight loss program (Workplace POWER-WP) for male shift workers.
Job satisfaction of radiologists in Germany - status quo]	The aim of this study was to identify and evaluate the work-related satisfaction of radiologists and its influencing factors in Germany.
Employee-oriented leadership and quality of working life: mediating roles of idiosyncratic deals.	Leader consideration has long been suggested to be conducive to quality of working life experienced by employees. The present study links this classic leadership dimension with more recent research on idiosyncratic deals, referring to personalized conditions workers negotiate in their employment relationships. A two-wave survey study (N = 159/142) among German hospital physicians suggests that authorizing idiosyncratic deals is a manifestation of employee-oriented leader behavior. Consideration had consistent positive effects on idiosyncratic deals regarding both professional development and working time flexibility. These two types had differential effects on two indicators of the quality of working life. Development related positively to work engagement, flexibility related negatively to work-family conflict. Cross-lagged correlations supported the proposed direction of influence between consideration and idiosyncratic deals in a subsample of repeating responders (n=91). The relation between development and engagement appeared to be reciprocal. Longitudinal results for the association between flexibility and work-family conflict were inconclusive.
The demands of a working day among female professional ballet dancers.	Professional classical ballet dancers typically face long working days, and many complain of fatigue, particularly as a possible cause of injury. However, little information exists regarding the true physiological demands on dancers. The aim of the present study was therefore to ascertain the daily workload of professional female ballet dancers in terms of work intensity and rest data. Information regarding a single "work day" was obtained from 51 female dancers in one company using a multiple accelerometer. Data were examined for the amount of time spent at work intensities measured in metabolic equivalents (METS)deemed sedentary, low, moderate, and high, and the length of each period at rest. Results indicated significant differences between dancer rankings (corps de ballet, first artist, soloist, and principal) for mean exercise intensity and the percentage of time spent at sedentary intensity (< 3 METS), moderate intensity (3-6 METS) (p < 0.005), and vigorous intensity (6-9 METS) (p < 0.05). The ratios of time spent below 1.5 METS versus time spent above 1.5 METS ("rest" vs. "work") were also significantly different (p < 0.001) between rankings. When rest periods throughout the working day were analyzed, 90% of dancers were found to spend less than 60 consecutive minutes resting at any one time; for 33.3% of dancers this was less than 20 minutes. Results also revealed significant differences (p < 0.05) between dancer rankings for the greatest amount of rest at any one time during the day. It was concluded that female professional classical ballet dancers' ranking in their companies should be considered in devising work-rest schedules to help them to avoid fatigue and resultant injuries.
Occupation and cancer risk by use of Danish registers.	Based on evidence from animal experiments and case reports, certain occupational exposures may contribute to yet undetected cancer risk in humans. Since traditional epidemiological studies are time consuming, the use of existing information from registers may facilitate the research process. Due to the existence of a unique personal identification number (CPR-number), a national cancer register operating since 1943, a nationwide pension fund scheme with compulsory membership for all employees covering long-term individual employment history, and sometimes with addition of information from external sources, e.g. interviews or job exposure matrices, it is possible to conduct large nationwide studies of occupational exposures and cancer risk in Denmark.
Necessities and needs of intervention for workplace health promotion in residential elderly care?]	The current demographic change coincides with an increasing demand for elderly care nursing services as well as a decrease of available nursing personnel. Against this background, efforts should be made to sustain the health and work motivation of the current workforce. In order to adequately design interventions, one needs an appropriate overview of subjective stress and health-related experiences of target groups as well as insight into influencing factors and organisational conditions. The study at hand analyses corresponding relations on the basis of a scientific survey conducted in six residential nursing homes and one institution for assisted accommodation. Survey results show that burnout is the most meaningful health indicator, while the strongest predictor for burnout turned out to be a conflicting relation between work and private life. There were significant differences between groups of staff concerning subjective perceptions of health. Based on these results, the authors argue for an organisational concept of health promotion.
When time matters.	The most important organizational resource is energy. The most important resource in time management is energy. Managing energy, not time, can help create encouraging time management skills and appropriate work life balance. Once a leader understands that time should be spent on things that are important instead of everything that is urgent, you can begin to develop a balance that will support your values, your family, and your organization. When leaders find meaningful ways to add a sense of purpose to their work they can personally improve themselves and their organizations. If your personal values do not align with the values of your organization you will never work with a true sense of purpose. Make the time to manage your energy. You will be surprised how much free time you find.
A nursing pilot study on bedside reporting to promote best practice and patient/family-centered care.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of bedside nursing report implementation on a pediatric neuroscience unit.
Obesity and work: proposal for a multidisciplinary intervention model for prevention and its application in an engineering plant]	Obesity is often particularly burdensome for subjects at work and leads to hypertension and diabetes preceded by a low grade of inflammation. Measures to promote health at the workplace can be achieved through periodic health surveillance. Simple parameters such as height, weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (CV), blood pressure (BP), as well as taking into account the type of work and tasks, shift work and smoking, are in fact sufficient to identify the most significant features of the working population so as to adequately design the type of intervention required. The paper describes how a health promotion programme aimed at preventing overweight and obesity was implemented based on analysis of the health surveillance data routinely collected by the occupational physician in an engineering plant in northern Italy.
The effort of being male: a survey on gender and burnout]	Stress at work affects more than 40 million people in the European Union - around 22% of workers - and is the second most reported work-related health problem. Gender does not seem to be a constant predictive factor for burnout: some studies showed that women suffer more from burnout than males, other studies proved that males report higher burnout scores while others did not detect any difference at all. These results may be due to gender-related stereotypes, or could even reiflect the preponderance of a specific gender in some jobs.
Effect of shiftwork on systemic markers of inflammation.	Shiftwork is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, but the possible role of inflammation in this relationship is not well known. We tested the hypothesis that shiftwork would be associated with higher levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and increased leukocyte count. We analyzed the cross-sectional associations between work arrangements and low-grade inflammation in 1877 airline-company employees separately for men (n=1037) and women (n=840). The participants were classified into five categories according to their work schedule: day workers who have not worked in shifts (referent group), former shiftworkers, 2-shift workers, 3-shift workers, and in-flight workers. In models adjusted for age and recent infectious diseases, CRP levels were higher among male 3-shift workers (p = .002) and marginally higher in male 2-shift workers (p = .076). In addition, leukocyte count was higher in 2-shift (p = .005) and 3-shift (p = .021) working men. In women, CRP level was higher in 2-shift workers (p = .028), whereas leukocyte count was lower in flight workers (p = .005). Any separate adjustment additionally for smoking, education, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and obesity did not substantially affect the results of 2- and 3-shift work. In the fully adjusted model, only the association between 3-shift work and CRP in men (p = .021) and 2-shift work and leukocyte count in men (p = .020) and leukocyte count in 3-shift-working women (p = .044) were significant. Our results suggest that 2- and 3-shift work is associated with increased systemic inflammation and the relationship is relatively independent of the considered risk factors of cardiovascular disease.
Case-control study of shift-work and breast cancer risk in Danish nurses: impact of shift systems.	Working outside normal daytime hours is increasing worldwide and is now one of the most widespread potential carcinogenic occupational exposures. There is sufficient evidence in experimental animals that light exposure during the biologic night increases tumour growth and limited epidemiologic evidence that night shift-work cause breast cancer. Existing studies had crude definitions of shift-work and did not discriminate between shift-work systems (e.g. permanent versus rotating or evening versus night).
Long working hours and alcohol risk among Australian and New Zealand nurses and midwives: a cross-sectional study.	The relationship between long working hours and harmful alcohol consumption reported in the literature is equivocal.
Appreciating age diversity and German nurse well-being and commitment: co-worker trust as the mediator.	Nursing practice faces the challenges of succeeding with a great diversity of customers and managing a diverse workforce with a wide range of age differences. While age diversity can lead to increased creativity and a greater richness of values and skills, it can also lead to value clashes, disrespect of each other's viewpoints, and increased conflict. As a result, nurses frequently experience stress, work-life imbalance, and a withdrawal from commitment. We propose the injection of positive diversity mindsets (age diversity appreciation) as one remedy. Specifically, we suggest that age diversity appreciation is positively related to nurses' well-being (stress and work-life balance), and also positively related to their team commitment. We further hypothesize that nurses' trust in co-workers mediates the hypothesized relationships. Our survey data of 138 nurses in a large hospital in Germany supported our hypotheses. We discuss both theoretical and managerial implications of our findings in the context of age diversity and nursing work outcomes in hospitals.
Social jetlag and obesity.	Obesity has reached crisis proportions in industrialized societies. Many factors converge to yield increased body mass index (BMI). Among these is sleep duration. The circadian clock controls sleep timing through the process of entrainment. Chronotype describes individual differences in sleep timing, and it is determined by genetic background, age, sex, and environment (e.g., light exposure). Social jetlag quantifies the discrepancy that often arises between circadian and social clocks, which results in chronic sleep loss. The circadian clock also regulates energy homeostasis, and its disruption-as with social jetlag-may contribute to weight-related pathologies. Here, we report the results from a large-scale epidemiological study, showing that, beyond sleep duration, social jetlag is associated with increased BMI. Our results demonstrate that living "against the clock" may be a factor contributing to the epidemic of obesity. This is of key importance in pending discussions on the implementation of Daylight Saving Time and on work or school times, which all contribute to the amount of social jetlag accrued by an individual. Our data suggest that improving the correspondence between biological and social clocks will contribute to the management of obesity.
20th International Symposium on Shiftwork and Working Time: biological mechanisms, recovery, and risk management in the 24-h society.	This dedicated issue of Chronobiology International is devoted to the selected proceedings of the 20th International Symposium on Shift Work and Working Time held in Stockholm, Sweden, 28 June to 1 July 2011. It constitutes the fifth such issue of the journal since 2004 dedicated to the selected proceedings to the meetings of the Working Time Society. The key theme of the 20th Symposium was "Biological Mechanisms, Recovery, and Risk Management in the 24-h Society." The collection of papers of this dedicated issue represents the best of contemporary research on the effects of night and rotating shift schedules on worker health and safety. The contents cover such topics as sleep restriction, injuries, health, and performance of night work and rotating shiftwork, plus light treatment as a countermeasure against the circadian disruption of shiftwork. The majority of the papers are observational field studies, including some of large sample size, and three studies are well-designed laboratory experiments.
Impact of layover length on sleep, subjective fatigue levels, and sustained attention of long-haul airline pilots.	Long-haul airline pilots often experience elevated levels of fatigue due to extended work hours and circadian misalignment of sleep and wake periods. During long-haul trips, pilots are typically given 1-3 d off between flights (i.e., layover) to recover from, and prepare for, duty. Anecdotally, some pilots prefer long layovers because it maximizes the time available for recovery and preparation, but others prefer short layovers because it minimizes both the length of the trip, and the degree to which the body clock changes from "home time" to the layover time zone. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of layover length on the sleep, subjective fatigue levels, and capacity to sustain attention of long-haul pilots. Participants were 19 male pilots (10 Captains, 9 First Officers) working for an international airline. Data were collected during an 11- or 12-d international trip. The trips involved (i) 4 d at home prior to the trip; (ii) an eastward flight of 13.5 h across seven time zones; (iii) a layover of either 39 h (i.e., short, n = 9) or 62 h (i.e., long, n = 10); (iv) a return westward flight of 14.3 h across seven time zones; and (v) 4 d off at home after the trip. Sleep was recorded using a self-report sleep diary and wrist activity monitor; subjective fatigue level was measured using the Samn-Perelli Fatigue Checklist; and sustained attention was assessed using the psychomotor vigilance task for a personal digital assistant (PalmPVT). Mixed-model regression analyses were used to determine the effects of layover length (short, long) on the amount of sleep that pilots obtained during the trip, and on the pilots' subjective fatigue levels and capacity to sustain attention. There was no main effect of layover length on ground-based sleep or in-flight sleep, but pilots who had a short layover at the midpoint of their trip had higher subjective fatigue levels and poorer sustained attention than pilots who had a long layover. The results of this study indicate that a short layover during a long-haul trip does not substantially disrupt pilots' sleep, but it may result in elevated levels of fatigue during and after the trip. If short layovers are used, pilots should have a minimum of 4 d off to recover prior to their next long-haul trip.
Night work and mortality: prospective study among Finnish employees over the time span 1984 to 2008.	There is considerable evidence showing that night work is associated with increased morbidity, but only a few studies have focused on its relation to mortality. This study investigates the relationship between the type of working-time arrangement (weekly night work/daytime work) and total and cause-specific mortality among men and women. The data consist of a representative working conditions survey of Finnish employees conducted in 1984 (2286 men/2216 women), which has been combined with register-based follow-up data from Statistics Finland covering the years 1985-2008. In the 1984 survey, the employees were asked if they worked during the night (23:00-06:00 h) and if so, how often. In this study, the authors compare employees who worked at night (121 men/89 women) to daytime employees who did not do night work (1325 men/1560 women). The relative risk of death was examined by Cox proportional hazards analyses adjusted for background (age, level of education, family situation, and county), health (longstanding illness, pain symptoms, smoking status, and psychological symptoms), and work-related factors (weekly working hours, physical and psychological demands, demands of learning at work, and perceived job insecurity). Female employees working at night had a 2.25-fold higher risk of mortality than female dayworkers (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.20-4.20) after adjustment for background and health- and work-related factors. In addition to total mortality, night work was also associated with tumor mortality. Female night workers had a 2.82-fold higher risk of tumor mortality than female dayworkers (95% CI 1.20-6.65) in the adjusted model. Among men, no such significant association was observed. The present study indicated that female night workers had a higher risk of both total and tumor mortality compared to female daytime employees. Additional research on the potential factors and mechanisms behind the association between night work and mortality is required.
Assessment of a new dynamic light regimen in a nuclear power control room without windows on quickly rotating shiftworkers--effects on health, wakefulness, and circadian alignment: a pilot study.	The aim of the study was to test whether a new dynamic light regime would improve alertness, sleep, and adaptation to rotating shiftwork. The illumination level in a control room without windows at a nuclear power station was ~200 lux (straight-forward horizontal gaze) using a weak yellow light of 200 lux, 3000 K (Philips Master TLD 36 W 830). New lighting equipment was installed in one area of the control room above the positions of the reactor operators. The new lights were shielded from the control group by a distance of >6 m, and the other operators worked at desks turned away from the new light. The new lights were designed to give three different light exposures: (i) white/blue strong light of 745 lux, 6000 K; (ii) weak yellow light of 650 lux, 4000 K; and (iii) yellow moderate light of 700 lux, 4000 K. In a crossover design, the normal and new light exposures were given during a sequence of three night shifts, two free days, two morning shifts, and one afternoon shift (NNN+MMA), with 7 wks between sessions. The operators consisted of two groups; seven reactor operators from seven work teams were at one time exposed to the new equipment and 16 other operators were used as controls. The study was conducted during winter with reduced opportunities of daylight exposure during work, after night work, or before morning work. Operators wore actigraphs, filled in a sleep/wake diary, including ratings of sleepiness on the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS) every 2 h, and provided saliva samples for analysis of melatonin at work (every 2nd h during one night shift and first 3 h during one morning shift). Results from the wake/sleep diary showed the new light treatment increased alertness during the 2nd night shift (interaction group  light  time, p < .01). Time of waking was delayed in the light condition after the 3rd night shift (group  light, p < .05), but the amount of wake time during the sleep span increased after the 2nd night shift (p < .05), also showing a tendency to affect sleep efficiency (p < .10). Effects on circadian phase were difficult to establish given the small sample size and infrequent sampling of saliva melatonin. Nonetheless, it seems that appropriate dynamic light in rooms without windows during the dark Nordic season may promote alertness, sleep, and better adaptation to quickly rotating shiftwork.
Urogenital diseases in men working "in shifts" in the oil fields of the Tyumen region]	Our study shows that urological health of men working in shifts in the oil fields of the Tyumen region is worse than mean national and regional characteristics. Newly diagnosed chronic bacterial prostatitis was prevalent among urogenital diseases. This situation can be explained by professional working and rest conditions for workers in the oil fields engaged in turn, by examination of the urologist participating in the health check-up team. Males with diagnosed prostatitis received treatment with the drug vitaprost plus produced in Russia with a good result.
Study protocol: the Registrar Clinical Encounters in Training (ReCEnT) study.	Patient encounters are the core learning activity of Australian general practice (family practice) training. Exposure to patient demographics and presentations may vary from one general practice registrar (vocational trainee) to another. This can affect comprehensiveness of training. Currently, there is no mechanism to systematically capture the content of GP registrar consultations. The aim of the Registrar Clinical Encounters in Training (ReCEnT) study is to document longitudinally the nature and associations of consultation-based clinical and educational experiences of general practice registrars.
Shift work and cancer: state of science and practical consequences.	In 2007, an expert Working Group convened by the IARC Monographs Programme concluded that shift work that involves circadian disruption is probably carcinogenic to humans (Group 2A). We scrutinised the epidemiological basis for this conclusion, with a focus on, but not limited to, breast and prostate cancers. We further considered practical consequences for shift workers in our industry against the background of new findings.We carried out a literature search including the epidemiological studies cited by IARC and newer available literature on shift work and cancer.Since the IARC assessment, eleven new studies have emerged, ten of which have already been published, with inconclusive results. Heterogeneity of exposure metrics and study outcomes and emphasis on positive but non-significant results make it difficult to draw general conclusions. Also, several reviews and commentaries, which have been published meanwhile, came to equivocal results. Published evidence is widely seen as suggestive but inconclusive for an adverse association between night work and breast cancer, and limited and inconsistent for cancers at other sites and all cancers combined.At this point in time it can not be ruled out that shift work including night work may increase the risk for some cancers in those who perform it. However, shift schedules can be organised in ways that minimise the associated health risks, and the risks may be further reduced through the implementation of structured and sustained health promotion programs specifically tailored to the needs of shift workers.
Fifteen-hour day shifts have little effect on the performance of taskwork by anaesthesia trainees during uncomplicated clinical simulation.	Shiftwork and work-hour limits for junior doctors are now well established in hospital work patterns. In order to ensure that trainees have adequate exposure to daytime elective surgical procedures, there is a tendency to have long shifts that include an after-hours component. However, long shifts can cause performance decrement due to time-on-task fatigue. In addition, shifts that encroach upon sleep time result in sleep loss. Using a high-fidelity patient simulation environment, we undertook a randomised, controlled trial to examine fatigue effects. A within-subjects comparison was used to evaluate the effect of 15-hour day shifts on the performance of 12 anaesthesia registrars. Preoperative assessment, machine check and taskwork using 42 task categories were evaluated. In both conditions, there was failure to meet current guidelines for preoperative evaluation or machine check, and when fatigued there was a 'trend' (P=0.06) to a reduction in the number of items in the machine check. With increase in time awake, there was an increase in time taken for explanation to the patient, an increase in mean duration of explanation to the patient, more time looking at the intravenous line or fluids when multi-tasking but less time adjusting the intravenous fluid. These effects are minor during routine uncomplicated induction of anaesthesia, but further investigation is needed to examine fatigue effects during non-routine circumstances.
Validation of a questionnaire to screen for shift work disorder.	At least 15% of the full-time work force is shift workers. Working during the overnight hours, early morning start times, and variable or rotating schedules present a challenge to the circadian system, and these shifts are associated with adverse health and safety consequences. Shift work disorder (SWD), a primary (circadian rhythm) sleep disorder indicated by excessive daytime sleepiness and/or insomnia associated with a shiftwork schedule, is under-recognized by primary care physicians. We sought to develop and validate a questionnaire to screen for high risk of SWD in a shift working population.
Compassion fatigue and satisfaction: a cross-sectional survey among US healthcare workers.	Professional quality of life among healthcare providers can impact the quality and safety of patient care. The purpose of this research was to investigate compassion satisfaction and compassion fatigue levels as measured by the Professional Quality of Life Scale self-report instrument in a community hospital in the United States. A cross-sectional survey study examined differences among 139 RNs, physicians, and nursing assistants. Relationships among individual and organizational variables were explored. Caregivers for critical patients scored significantly lower on the Professional Quality of Life subscale of burnout when compared with those working in a noncritical care unit. Linear regression results indicate that high sleep levels and employment in critical care areas are associated with less burnout. Identification of predictors can be used to design interventions that address modifiable risks. 
Association between shift work and periodontal health in a representative sample of an Asian population.	The association of shift work with periodontal disease is not well known. We studied the relationship between shift work and periodontitis in a representative sample of an Asian population.
Psychosocial risk factors for coronary heart disease.	In 2003, the National Heart Foundation of Australia published a position statement on psychosocial risk factors and coronary heart disease (CHD). This consensus statement provides an updated review of the literature on psychosocial stressors, including chronic stressors (in particular, work stress), acute individual stressors and acute population stressors, to guide health professionals based on current evidence. It complements a separate updated statement on depression and CHD. Perceived chronic job strain and shift work are associated with a small absolute increased risk of developing CHD, but there is limited evidence regarding their effect on the prognosis of CHD. Evidence regarding a relationship between CHD and job (in)security, job satisfaction, working hours, effort-reward imbalance and job loss is inconclusive. Expert consensus is that workplace programs aimed at weight loss, exercise and other standard cardiovascular risk factors may have positive outcomes for these risk factors, but no evidence is available regarding the effect of such programs on the development of CHD. Social isolation after myocardial infarction (MI) is associated with an adverse prognosis. Expert consensus is that although measures to reduce social isolation are likely to produce positive psychosocial effects, it is unclear whether this would also improve CHD outcomes. Acute emotional stress may trigger MI or takotsubo ("stress") cardiomyopathy, but the absolute increase in transient risk from an individual stressor is low. Psychosocial stressors have an impact on CHD, but clinical significance and prevention require further study. Awareness of the potential for increased cardiovascular risk among populations exposed to natural disasters and other conditions of extreme stress may be useful for emergency services response planning. Wider public access to defibrillators should be available where large populations gather, such as sporting venues and airports, and as part of the response to natural and other disasters. 
The association between different night shiftwork factors and breast cancer: a case-control study.	Research on the possible association between shiftwork and breast cancer is complicated because there are many different shiftwork factors, which might be involved including: light at night, phase shift, sleep disruption and changes in lifestyle factors while on shiftwork (diet, physical activity, alcohol intake and low sun exposure).
Rotating night-shift work and lung cancer risk among female nurses in the United States.	The risk of lung cancer among night-shift workers is unknown. Over 20 years of follow-up (1988-2008), we documented 1,455 incident lung cancers among 78,612 women in the Nurses' Health Study. To examine the relationship between rotating night-shift work and lung cancer risk, we used multivariate Cox proportional hazard models adjusted for detailed smoking characteristics and other risk factors. We observed a 28% increased risk of lung cancer among women with 15 or more years spent working rotating night shifts (multivariate relative risk (RR) = 1.28, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.07, 1.53; Ptrend = 0.03) compared with women who did not work any night shifts. This association was strongest for small-cell lung carcinomas (multivariate RR = 1.56, 95% CI: 0.99, 2.47; Ptrend = 0.03) and was not observed for adenocarcinomas of the lung (multivariate RR = 0.91, 95% CI: 0.67, 1.24; Ptrend = 0.40). Further, the increased risk associated with 15 or more years of rotating night-shift work was limited to current smokers (RR = 1.61, 95% CI: 1.21, 2.13; Ptrend < 0.001), with no association seen in nonsmokers (Pinteraction = 0.03). These results suggest that there are modestly increased risks of lung cancer associated with extended periods of night-shift work among smokers but not among nonsmokers. Though it is possible that this observation was residually confounded by smoking, our findings could also provide evidence of circadian disruption as a "second hit" in the etiology of smoking-related lung tumors.
Approval and perceived impact of duty hour regulations: survey of pediatric program directors.	To determine pediatric program director (PD) approval and perception of changes to resident training and patient care resulting from 2011 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Common Program Requirements.
Factors related with the ability to maintain wakefulness in the daytime after fast and forward rotating shifts.	The aim of this study was to explore changes in cognitive function, sleep propensity, and sleep-related hormones (growth hormone, cortisol, prolactin, and thyrotropin) and to investigate the factors related to the ability to maintain wakefulness in the daytime after one block of fast forward rotating shift work (2 days, 2 evenings, and 2 nights). Twenty female nurses (mean age: 26.02.0 years; range: 22-30 years) were recruited from an acute psychiatric ward. The nurses completed the Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), State Anxiety Inventory (SAI), Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS), Digit Symbol Substitution Test, Symbol Searching Test, Taiwan University Attention Test, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), and Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) four times throughout the day at 2-hour intervals, and their hormone levels were measured at the same time. There was no time of day effect on sleep propensity as measured by the MWT or MSLT despite an increase in self-reported sleepiness. Anxiety state and neuropsychological tasks, including executive function, attention, and perceptual and motor abilities were not affected during the daytime sleep restriction period. The number of omissions and perceptual and motor abilities showed a practice effect. The thyrotropin levels were significantly elevated, and cortisol levels significantly decreased during the daytime sleep restriction period. There were no significant changes in growth hormone or prolactin throughout the daytime period. Age was negatively associated with the mean sleep latency (MSL) of the MWT and positively associated with the MSL of the MSLT. The perseverative errors in WCST and SSS scores were negatively associated with the MSL of the MWT. SAI scores and thyrotropin levels were positively associated with the MSL of the MWT. In conclusion, there was no change in sleep propensity in the daytime after one block of rotating shift work. An attempt to preserve daytime alertness was also related to maintaining neuropsychological performance. Maintaining this ability was related to thyrotropin and age, and this cognition required a high attentive load. 
Sources of work-related acute fatigue in United States hospital nurses.	This study identified the nursing work activities that could be the primary sources of work-related acute fatigue in US hospital nurses. Continuous recording of working heart rate and random observations of nursing activities were applied to collect data from eight nurses during two consecutive 12h day shifts. Using descriptive statistics and random-effect analysis of variance, the contributions of individual nursing work activities to acute fatigue were compared based on the activity frequencies and nurses' corresponding heart rate elevations. Of 860 observed nursing-related work activities, manual patient-handling, bedside-care, care-coordinating, and walking/standing activities accounted for 5%, 16%, 38%, and 41%, respectively. After controlling for the differences of participant and shift, the percentage of working heart rate to maximal heart rate of manual patient-handling (64.3%), bedside-care (59.7%), and walking/standing (57.4%) activities were significantly higher than that of care-coordinating activities (52.3%, F[3, 38.0] =7.5, P<0.001). These findings suggest that bedside care and walking/standing, other than manual patient handling, contributed most to the level of acute fatigue.
The impact of shift duration on the efficacy and tolerability of armodafinil in patients with excessive sleepiness associated with shift work disorder.	To examine the impact of night-shift duration (9 hours or >9 hours) on efficacy and tolerability of armodafinil in patients with shift work disorder (SWD).
Combined effects of physical demands and shift working on low back disorders among nursing personnel.	The aim of this study was to investigate the synergistic effects of physical demands and shift working on low back disorders (LBDs) among nursing personnel. The study used 2 questionnaires: a self-administered questionnaire composed of parts of Nordic musculoskeletal questionnaire to assess LBDs and job content questionnaire to assess physical demands. The participants were divided into 4 groups: from group 1 (low physical demands day workers) to group 4 (high physical demands shift workers). In regression analysis, high physical demands were associated with the prevalence of LBDs independently (OR 4.4, 95% CI [2.40, 8.00] and p < .05), but there was no association between shift working and LBDs (p > .05). Odds ratio in high physical demands shift workers was 9.33 compared to the reference group (p < .001). Calculated synergistic index was 7.37. Simultaneous impacts of shift working and high physical demands may increase the prevalence of LBDs among nursing personnel. 
Seven-day challenge.	High mortality rates among patients admitted to hospital at weekends have prompted NHS England to launch a strategy to implement seven-day working within the next three years. This will require huge changes, including a reorganization of nursing and support staff throughout hospitals and in the community.
The impact of 2011 duty hours requirements on family medicine residents.	Our objective was to determine family medicine residents' perception of changes in education, patient care, and quality of life following implementation of the 2011 Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Common Program Requirements.
Dietary habits among persons hired on shift work.	Shift-work determinates irregular nutrition habits. The quality as well as the quantity of meals consumed by shift-workers can significantly affects their health.
Safe-to-fly test and evaluation of fatigue research study test devices.	The U.S. Air Force (USAF) School of Aerospace Medicine is conducting a fatigue research study titled "Assessment of Fatigue in Deployed Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT) Crews" using two electronic devices onboard USAF aircraft during actual CCATT missions. Both devices were subjected to testing to support a safe-to-fly (STF) recommendation prior to their use in flight. The purpose of the test and evaluation process was to ensure the devices can be safely operated in flight without posing a hazard to the research participant, crewmembers, or aircraft during an actual mission. The goal of this article is to outline the key factors involved in the STF certification process.
Hygienic evaluation of occupational quantization of the activities of finishing shop workers]	Highlighted are the data on the functional state of the cardiovascular, respiratory and muscular systems of schoolchildren and adult workers, the data obtained while using systems quantitation of professional activity. It is shown that compared to workers the schoolchildren perform various operations of production quantum with higher physiologic strain. Established changes in systole frequency of schoolchildren confirm some strain of their functional circulatory system because of insufficient training and higher response of the cardiovascular system to work load. The use of systems quantitation during the working process enables one to identify a number of determinant affecting the process of forming schoolchildren's vocational skills and functional state.
The effects of fatigue on physician performance--an underestimated cause of physician impairment and increased patient risk.	Evidence is reviewed demonstrating the high level of drug and alcohol abuse and marital disharmony among physicians and the particularly high rate among anaesthetists. The relationship between these factors and the effects of fatigue is explored. The current evidence for reduction in physician performance and vigilance resulting from fatigue and sleep loss is reviewed. Supplementary indirect evidence is surveyed which suggests that increased experience may not compensate adequately for this reduced performance. Since hours of work can be controlled, it is essential that anaesthetists, their professional organizations and regulatory agencies ensure that pressure for efficiency does not result in fatigue and the consequent compromise of both patient and physician health and safety.
Work at sea: a study of sleep, and of circadian rhythms in physiological and psychological functions, in watchkeepers on merchant vessels. I. Watchkeeping on board ships: a methodological approach.	The safety of a ship depends substantially on its bridge watchkeepers, whose alertness and efficiency must be maintained at all hours of the day and night. Fatigue, circadian rhythms, and sleep disruption occasioned by the unusual working hours of these personnel may all affect their performance. A methodology for assessing the magnitude of this problem is proposed. The application of this methodology in a large-scale shipboard study of merchant mariners on extended voyages is then described, and details given of the techniques used to measure sleep and activity, and temporal variations in a range of physiological und psychological parameters. A summary of the data collected in the study is provided as a reference point for the reports on the different aspects of the results that follow in subsequent articles.
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: current status and future trends.	Although originally percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was used only in patients with well-preserved left ventricular function and single-vessel coronary disease, the criteria for selection of patients have enlarged as experience with the procedure has accumulated. Currently, patients with multivessel coronary disease, coronary occlusions, or myocardial infarction are also eligible to undergo PTCA. Technologic advances such as steerable guidewire systems have improved the success rates and have facilitated dilation of severe lesions even in tortuous vessels. Despite the increasing complexity of cases, the frequency of occurrence of complications (such as coronary dissection, occlusion, and infarction) has decreased while the success rates have improved substantially.
Who undertakes the consultations in the outpatient department?	In a study of all 4275 outpatient consultations over one month in a district general hospital it was found that the clinics in surgical specialties had the largest numbers of patients. In general surgery less than half of new patients and only one third of all patients attending the clinic were seen by a consultant. (Nine months later about a third of all new patients had still not seen a consultant in the clinic.) In the medical clinics just over a quarter of patients were seen by doctors who had less than six months' experience in their present specialty after registration. Overall, doctors had been on continuous duty for at least 24 hours before a third of consultations. Doctors in training had actually worked during the previous night before attending a quarter of the clinics. Much of the large volume of work is performed by tired, incompletely trained doctors. It is suggested that a greater proportion of the work should be performed by fully trained staff. The workload might be reduced by modifying the pattern of the consultation.
Effects of antihypertensive medications on vitality and well-being.	The effects of captopril, methyldopa, and propranolol were assessed for sense of well-being and vitality among 626 men with mild to moderate hypertension in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial. After a 24-week treatment period, patients taking captopril, compared with patients taking methyldopa and propranolol, scored significantly higher on measures of well-being and vitality. In addition, patients on captopril had more favorable results in being able to keep up with their work and in not feeling tired or sleepy at work. The effects of each of the drugs manifested themselves at different periods. For example, the negative effects of methyldopa on vitality were evident by week 8, whereas the negative effects did not become manifest for propranolol until week 24. On the other hand, a steady progressive improvement in vitality scores was evident at week 8 and at week 24 for patients on captopril. The findings of the study also suggest that the effects of the treatment drugs were most marked in patients who had had previous antihypertensive medications and who were on single-drug therapy during the course of the clinical trial. Further, the differences between patients taking captopril and those on methyldopa and propranolol appear to be obscured by the addition of a diuretic. The findings of the study may guide the physician in orienting his or her patient and in planning and implementing a therapeutic regimen.
Rhythm scrambling: good, bad or indifferent?	The scrambling of rhythms, i.e. their mixing-up or throwing into disorder, on a variety of schedules of lighting and feeding, left the average overall life span of several groups of mice unaffected. One particularly scrambled schedule prolonged 10th-decile survival time. The phase-shifting of rhythms, in a mammalian simulation of shift-work schedules, need not be harmful and can be indifferent or even beneficial. Such findings have important implications for health, performance and safety in human shift-work by both sexes and for the choice of other schedules, such as those for drug treatments or exercise.
Epidemiological studies on the outcome of pregnancy and delivery of the female employees]	Little information exists about the effect of working during pregnancy on pregnancy outcome. In order to determine whether pregnancy outcome was altered when women were employed outside their homes, pregnancy outcomes of 4,395 working women were compared with outcomes of 10,203 women (control) who were not employed. The pregnancy outcomes of working women were also analysed according to the occupation and working hours. Irregularity of the menstrual cycles prior to the pregnancy was observed more frequently in the working women than control (19.5% vs 14.9%, p less than 0.001). There were significant differences between the employees and control in rates of spontaneous abortion and premature delivery (6.8% vs 5.4%, p less than 0.01), spontaneous vaginal delivery (80.7% vs 84.5%, p less than 0.001), small-for-gestational age infant (SGA) (4.6% vs 3.4%, p less than 0.001), and fetal distress (7.6% vs 6.5%, p less than 0.02). However, no statistical differences were noted in rates of EPH gestosis, gestational anemia, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, perinatal death, or malformation prevalence. Among the 1,888 employees, rates of threatened abortion and threatened premature delivery, and spontaneous abortion and preterm delivery were significantly higher in the working women whose actual work were longer than eight hours per day than those with a shorter work; that is 13.7% vs 10.4% (p less than 0.05) and 9.3% vs 6.1% (p less than 0.02), respectively. Overall the results are reassuring that working during pregnancy is in itself a risk factor for adverse outcome.
Historic changes of occupational work load and mortality from peptic ulcer in Germany.	The occurrence of peptic ulcer disease appears to be associated with the amount of occupational work load. Worldwide the number of hospital admissions, surgical operations, and death rates from gastric and duodenal ulcer have declined during recent decades. This communication examines the probability of a correlation between the time trends of gastric and duodenal ulcer mortality in Germany and changes in the occupational work load between 1870 and 1984. Lifetime cumulative hours of work declined for all consecutive cohorts of the population born between 1840 and 1955. The fall occurred similarly in all age groups. However, lifetime cumulative energy expenditure originating from industrial blue collar work showed a peak for the cohorts born during the last quarter of the 19th century. A marked decline occurred in all cohorts born after 1905. A similar birth-cohort pattern was found for mortality from peptic ulcer disease, with those born at the turn of the century showing a higher risk of dying from peptic ulcer disease than any previous or subsequent generation. The coincidence of the birth-cohort patterns of both mortality from peptic ulcer and occupational energy expenditure suggests that birth-cohort pattern of peptic ulcer may be related to the trends of occupational work load that occurred during the industrial revolution. The amount of work hours appears to be a less sensitive measure for the occupational work load. The superimposition of two counteracting historic changes, namely the increased industrial work force and the decreased occupational work load due to legislative regulations, industrial automation, and mechanization may have shaped the rise and fall in the occurrence of peptic ulcer disease.
Work at sea: a study of sleep, and of circadian rhythms in physiological and psychological functions, in watchkeepers on merchant vessels. II. Sleep duration, and subjective ratings of sleep quality.	Sleep length and sleep quality scores were collected on board ships over periods of up to two weeks from 38 watchkeepers working a '4-on/8-off routine' and 29 dayworkers. All watchkeepers exhibited fragmented sleeping patterns, which indicated a lack of adaptation of the sleep/wakefulness cycle to the hours of work. There were only slight differences in total sleep length between watchkeepers and dayworkers, however, both groups did not obtain an adequate amount of sleep. Within the watchkeeping crews the 3rd Officers had by far the shortest sleep length. Concerning sleep quality, daytime sleep was generally given the lowest ratings, whereas sleep starting before midnight was on average evaluated as the best, both by watchkeepers and dayworkers. Watchkeeping personnel do not normally have any "days off" during a voyage so that missed sleep might even amount to a sleep deficit. A solution for this problem could perhaps be a new, stabilized system that allows a single uninterrupted sleep, which is required for full recuperation, to be taken each day.
Rapid reversal of circadian blood pressure rhythm in shift workers.	The blood pressure and heart rates of seven normotensive shift workers were monitored automatically for 24 h with a non-invasive ambulatory method on 3 different days. The first monitoring session took place at the end of an ordinary work period of morning shifts, the second on the first day of a period of night shifts, and the third on the last day of a period of night shifts. The circadian blood pressure rhythm, which showed a normal pattern during the daytime work shift, was totally reversed from the first day of the night shift. The blood pressure rhythm closely followed the sleep-wakefulness cycle. The changes in circadian heart rate rhythm were not as pronounced as those in blood pressure but showed a similar trend.
Sleep and circadian rhythms of an airline pilot operating on the polar route: a case study.	This study was planned and performed as a first step to assess sleep behaviour and circadian rhythmicity in aircrews operating on regular passenger flights between Germany and Japan via Anchorage, AK. Sleep patterns as well as continuous recordings of ECG and temperature were obtained from a B747 captain during a period of 13 d, including a preceding control day, 8 d on duty and 4 d at home base after return. Sleep behaviour and circadian rhythms changed dramatically due to adverse effects from the duty roster on the polar route. Sleep periods became fragmented into several sleep periods per day in a very irregular manner. Total sleep duration was shortened and sleep deficits occurred between flights. After return to the home base, sleep distribution remained divided into two intervals per day. The circadian system was considerably disrupted on route. Effects associated with irregular duty and sleep patterns intensified desynchronization. Readjustment was extremely slow resulting in a phase-displacement of at least 10 h even after being home for 4 d. Altogether, the results give reason for serious concerns and for the conclusion to strongly recommend more extensive studies on this route.
A sampling study of bedside nursing activity in a cardiac surgical intensive care unit. Part 2. The effect of time and shift on the nursing workload.	For a selected group of 17 patients following cardiac surgery, 33 discrete elements of nursing workload have been defined, and the nurse's bedside activities logged at 1 min intervals throughout the 24 h immediately following the patient's return from the operating theatre. It is possible to identify three broad types of activity undertaken by the bedside nurse; technical nursing care (Type 1), intermittent nursing care (Type 2), and the balance of the nurse's time, largely concerned with observation and liaison with other staff--learning activities (Type 3). The time devoted to technical nursing care reduces significantly over the patient's first 24 h in the ward. On the other hand the time devoted to intermittent nursing care and learning activities is shown to be shift dependent. The effect of the efficient utilisation of computer technology is estimated, and it is demonstrated that the implementation of such technology would result in the expansion of the time available for the nurse to observe the patient. The potential benefits and drawbacks of this are discussed.
Effects of respiratory morbidity on occupational activity among farmers.	Work-related respiratory diseases are common among farmers. Few studies, however, have dealt with the consequences of respiratory diseases for the lives of the afflicted farmers. To estimate the socioeconomic consequences of respiratory diseases in the farming population, we made a cross-sectional study and a follow-up study. In 1979 farmers with farmer's lung were twice as likely as healthy farmers to plan to reduce their farming work or to stop farming completely. Fifteen percent of the farmers who developed chronic bronchitis during a three-year follow-up had decided to reduce farming work, close down the farm or change the line of production on the farm. The respective rate for healthy farmers was 8%. In 1982, after the follow-up study of new cases of respiratory diseases, the rate of giving up occupational activities was twice as great among individuals with farmer's lung or asthma as in the rest of the farming population. Based on this study, we estimated that of the new cases of respiratory diseases, every tenth will stop farming in the near future, owing to one of the respiratory diseases analyzed. In Finland about 300 farmers per 100,000 and a total of about 600 farmers annually reduce their farming work or stop farming due to respiratory diseases.
Features of the psychosomatic correction of work capacity during prolonged continuous activity]	It has been shown by experiment that autogenic training exerts a positive effect on the performance of operators working continuously for a long time. Their efficiency largely depends on their skill, current health state, and time of the day. Depending on these factors, autogenic training may increase the quality of operator's work by 7 to 49%.
Clinical performance of interns after being on call.	We assessed the effect of in-hospital call on clinical performance and emotional state in seven medical interns. Clinical performance was evaluated through the use of actors who were trained to pose as patients seeking consultation because of specific medical complaints. The physician-patient interaction was scored according to predetermined criteria. There was no significant difference in interns' performance whether or not the preceding 24 hours had been spent on call. On a standardized questionnaire, interns reported significantly more fatigue and depression after call. We conclude that the major discernible effect of call is a deterioration of interns' feelings of well-being.
Night nursing for trainees: living up to the image.	Student nurses working a night shift in a hospital in the north of England were interviewed regarding their experience. While professional gains clearly occurred, personal stresses were more prominent. The problem of idealized image of the night nurse was a major issue. It is suggested that psychological preparation and support of trainees would help them to cope with the adjustments required.
Work stress, hardiness, and burnout among hospital staff nurses.	The question of whether personality hardiness moderates the impact of job stressors on burnout was studied in 107 registered staff nurses from an urban, community hospital who responded to a self-administered questionnaire. Consistent with previous research, burnout was significantly associated with higher levels of perceived job stress and lower levels of personality hardiness. Hierarchical multiple regression analyses further indicated that work stressors (particularly stress due to workload) and hardiness were significant additive rather than interactive predictors of burnout. That is, hardiness had beneficial main effects in reducing burnout, but did not appear to prevent high levels of job stress from leading to high levels of burnout.
Circadian principles and design of rotating shift work schedules.	Circadian rhythms may be disrupted when shift workers rotate from one work schedule to another. It has been suggested that in order to minimize the time needed to readjust circadian rhythms to a new work schedule the work time of shift workers should be rotated in a delaying rather than an advancing direction. However, delaying or advancing the work time does not imply that the sleep-wake cycle is also shifted in a similar manner. Indeed, after a complete rotation between the day, evening, and night shifts the sleep time will be advanced once, delayed once, and not shifted once, regardless of whether the workers are on a delaying or an advancing work rotation schedule. Thus circadian rhythms are likely to be perturbed in a similar manner whether the work schedule is rotated in a delaying or an advancing direction.
The prevalence and health impact of shiftwork.	Data from the National Center for Health Statistics National Survey of Personal Health Practices and Consequences were analyzed to determine the impact of variable shift schedules on health-related behaviors of persons in the United States labor force. Twenty-six per cent of men and 18 per cent of women in the US labor force reported working a variable shift in Spring 1980. As compared to men working non-variable work schedules, those working variable shifts exhibited higher rates of heavy drinking, job stress, and emotional problems. Female variable shift workers reported higher rates of sleeping pill, tranquilizer, and alcohol use, as well as lower social network scores, more job stress, and more emotional problems.
Acute effects of meals, noise and nightwork.	An experimental study of the acute effects of meals, noise and nightwork showed that there was a post-meal impairment in detection of targets in a cognitive vigilance task. This was found both during the day and at night, although certain features of the results suggested that the day and night effects were not equivalent. Noise increased the number of false alarms but reduced the post-meal impairment in hit rate. Subjects with low levels of trait or state anxiety showed the greatest post-lunch impairments in performance, but this effect was reduced when the meal was eaten at night.
Duration limit of moderately heavy work activity in technically unfavorable environments]	The working time in work places thermically uncomfortable must be limited in order to prevent the risk of thermal stress. The Authors measure the environmental microclimatic parameters (dry bulb temperature, wet bulb temperature, globe temperature, natural wet bulb temperature, air speed, vapor pressure) in twenty working sites of a thermal power plant. Starting from the values obtained, they calculate the safe exposure times under unfavourable thermal conditions by means of four different methods (WBGT, time weighted average WBGT, allowable exposure time-AET, required sweat rate index). The results are critically analysed.
Identifying stressors at work: recent research developments.	This paper reviews recent research carried out into a variety of work stressors. It provides a model of occupational stress and explores some of the recent research work on shift work, job overload, role conflicts, career development, relationships at work and dual career stress.
Hygienic aspects of youth work brigades]	A comprehensive inquiry study was carried out on living conditions, labour and regime in youth brigades. Furthermore, a complex hygienic-physiological assessment was made of the work of the students gone on agricultural brigades on the base of studies on the changes in the cardiovascular system, energy expenditure, nervous-muscular and thermoregulatory apparatuses, as well as on the functional activity of sympathico-adrenal system. The work, done by the students-members of the brigades, is qualified as moderately heavy, and as heavy only in some labour operations. Regardless of the relatively heavy and intensive work, the students are not overtired, because the duration of the working time is shortened on account of the rests, made at their desire. Recommendations are presented for the improvement both of the conditions in brigade camps and organization of labour regime.
Effect of night-shift work on selected physiological indicators in power plant workers]	Ninety-two workers of Thermal-electric Power Station have been examined. The subjects have been classified into three age-dependent groups: 21-30, 31-40 and over 40 years. Each of the subjects has undergone tests of selected physiological indices before and after the night shift. The examinations included: body temperature measurement, pulse rate, respiration rate, arterial blood pressure. The measurements promoted calculation of: Kerd's index pulse respiration rate, mean arterial pressure, stroke and minute volumes. Changes in physiological indices due to night work have been compared in particular age groups by the "t" Student test for two mean values of small samples. The night work results in hypertonia of the vegetative parasympathetic system which is consistent with the circadiem rhythmicity of human physiological functions. The 21-30 years age group exhibits strong excitation of the vegetative sympathetic system due to great nervous and emotional tension accompanying operators' work.
The night float system of resident on call: what do the nurses think?	In 1989, the internal medicine residency training program at St. John's Episcopal Hospital changed from a standard one-in-four on-call system to a night float system of resident on call. Using a confidential questionnaire that assessed the opinions of medical nurses, the nurses were asked which system they preferred, and how the change to a night float system of resident on call affected medical resident performance. A significant majority of the nurses preferred night float over a standard system of resident on call. Most nurses responded that because night float allows residents to get more rest, residents make fewer mistakes and are easier to work with. Residents on night float were not considered to be more knowledgeable. The responders indicated that night float did not create confusion about which resident to call for a patient problem.
Sleep disorders in professional man and women and their relationship to the workplace]	In Switzerland as well as in many other industrialized countries, sleep disturbances are among the most prevalent health problems. Reliable knowledge about the social and personal conditions of sleep disturbances and especially about their association with conditions is however limited. Using data from the Bern workplace Health Project ("Hrz-AsProjekt", n = 774) a logistic regression model was applied to study the association between an indicator of sleep disturbances composed both of problems falling asleep and problems waking-up during the night and several work-related factors. Sleep disturbances were found to be directly associated with perceived work load, time pressure and physical work demands and inversely associated with social acceptance at workplace, work satisfaction and the ability not to become immersed into work. Under comparable working conditions these associations did not differ for men and women. It was concluded that psychosocial demands and resources of the workplace do affect the quality of sleep.
Shiftwork: the special challenges for women.	1. Humans are designed to sleep at night and work during the day; thus, shiftwork is inherently non-physiological. The species has not yet evolved to the point of being able to adjust to a 24 hour day, despite society's demands. 2. Certain individuals may be better able to cope with the requirements of shiftwork than others. Women may be less able than men to do so because of the demands of home and family life and physiological differences. 3. Shifts can be designed to be more or less difficult for certain individuals. "Night owl" individuals might do best with evening shifts, "morning larks" with shifts starting in the early morning.
Prospective study of shift work and risk of coronary heart disease in women.	The purpose of this study was to examine prospectively the relation of shift work to risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in a cohort of women.
Effects of the nature of work on the health status of traffic controllers of railway transport]	The work of railway traffic controllers involves emotional strain and, hence, is associated with a rather high morbidity. Circulatory disorders occurred in this population 1.9 times more frequently and gastrointestinal disturbances 2.2 times more often than in other workers of railway transport. These data necessitated development of sanitary and hygienic recommendations aimed at improvement of the working conditions for railway traffic controllers.
Nutrient intake in permanent night shift workers]	By means of a modified weight record technique, total dietary intake was obtained in 24 permanent night-shift workers during a period of 7 consecutive days; intake data were attached to eight defined meals. As a control, 25 shift workers of the same company were investigated during the morning shift. Mean daily energy intake was 2866 +/- 616 kcal (12.0 +/- 2.6 MJ) including 14% protein, 39.5% fat, 37.8% carbohydrates, and 8.7% alcohol. Statistically significant differences between groups were found for vitamin E and polyunsaturated fatty acids. In both groups intake data for vitamin A, D, zinc and dietary fiber did not meet 3/4 of the recommendations of the German Nutrition Society. In contrast to controls, nutrient intake of the permanent night-shift workers was slightly less during weekend days; mean meal frequency decreased from 5.4 (weekday) to 4.3. The distribution of total daily nutrient intake to different meals partly did not agree with existing recommendations; however, the deviation seems reasonable. Regarding the risks for accidents as well as the working capacity, the relatively high alcohol intake during working hours has to be criticized.
Study of workload of general medicine specialists working in the health insurance clinics.	This study was conducted at 4 of the H.I.O. polyclinics in Alex. with the objective of examining the change in visit rate per 1000 beneficiaries for general medicine specialty at H.I.O. clinics during a 4-year period (1985-1988) and to detect any trends that may have a bearing on the H.I.O. standards for supply of specialists. Data were collected from H.I.O. statistics department, H.I.O. regulations, and also through researcher's observation and specialists' interview. The collected data was used to describe the workload in terms of annual visit rate, actual number of working hours, the specialists' average production hours per day, the specialists' average idle time per day, the estimated number of required specialist working hours per day, and the specialists' recommended working hours per day. The results revealed a rising trend in the rate of use of general medicine specialist services and a definite shortage of supply of general medicine specialists was found in all clinics compared to H.I.O. standards. On the other hand, recommended supply based on specialist opinion was less than the H.I.O. standards but more than the current supply. Accordingly H.I.O. should re-estimate the specialist population standard and should seek the commitment of specialists to the revised standards.
Sleep and alertness in a 12-hour rotating shift work environment.	Industrial workers on rotating shifts were evaluated for the effects of rotating shift work. Twenty-five (86%) of 29 workers in the study area who work 12-hour shifts in a scheduled 16-day rotation participated. The mean number of hours of sleep at home after working day shifts (5.6 hours) was less than after the first three night shifts (6.0, 6.4, and 6.6 hours, respectively). At work, the mean number of hours at reported peak alertness was greater during the night shift (6.1 hours) than the day shift (4.9 hours), but the perceived alertness levels were relatively lower on the night shift. Increased perceived difficulty working and decreased perceived productivity and safety were reported on the first night of the night shift. We demonstrate that workers on rotating shift work exhibit low alertness-related outcomes on both shifts. These workers have early shift work starting times that appear to disrupt sleep patterns on both day and night shifts. At this work site, a number of interventions to lessen the effects of rotating shift work are being evaluated.
Occupational hygiene in the plywood industry]	In plywood production the synthetic glue materials based on carbamide-formaldehyde and phenol-formaldehyde resins change the ambient air and increase the toxicity of products. High noise level, dust, chemicals harm the health status of workers. The total morbidity is characterized by prevalent catarrhal respiratory diseases and locomotor disorders. The final products differ in toxicity depended on formaldehyde content, which can be determined by perforation and chamber methods. Lower toxicity of resins, better organization of production and working schedule can reduce the harm to the workers' health.
Industrial hygienic study on nursing activities investigation on heart rate and energy expenditure of cranial nerves and ICU ward nurses.	Using a Holter electrocardiograph (ECG), we calculated the heart rates of ward nurses during day shifts, a time in which various activities are undertaken. Energy expenditures were calculated from the heart rate data and nursing workloads were evaluated. The following results were obtained. 1) The energy expenditures per day were 3302 kcal in the cranial neurology ward, 3064 kcal in the ICU. 2) The energy expenditures during working hours were 1976 kcal for the day shift (510 minutes) in the cranial neurology ward, 1744 kcal in the ICU, 1867 kcal for the evening shift (495 min) in the cranial neurology ward, 1645 kcal for the evening shift in the ICU and 1947 kcal for the night shift (570 min) in the cranial neurology ward, 1839 kcal for the night shift in the ICU. 3) The highest energy expenditures for different activities were 949 kcal (78.0%) for day shift in direct nursing care in the cranial neurology ward, 722 kcal (43.8%) for the evening shift in assisting with medical examination and treatment in the ICU, 754 kcal (41.0%) for the night shift in assisting with medical examination and treatment in the ICU ward. 4) The longest working hours were 217 min (48.0%) for the day shift in direct nursing care in the cranial neurology ward, 252 min (50.9%) for the evening shift, 234 min (41.0%) for the night shift in assisting with medical examination and treatment in the ICU. The results indicate that the energy expenditures of ward nurses are higher than those of other workers. The reasons for this difference are discussed in this report.
Preferences for specific work schedules: foundation for an expert-system scheduling program.	An expert system was developed to schedule nurses according to their preferences for specific schedules. The first step in this project was to determine the reliability and stability of nurses' schedule preferences. If nurses' preferences changed frequently, the proposed expert system would not have been feasible. Our results show that for a 3- to 6-month period most nurses are consistent in their preferences of schedules. While each nurse is unique, cluster analysis indicates that it is possible to group nurses according to desire for tour.
Nursing at dawn. Nursing tasks in the first hour of the morning shift in a German hospital.	Nurses' working hours are known to be one reason for high wastage rates. The early start of work seems to be particularly difficult. The aim of the present study was to examine which nursing tasks were performed during the time from 6:00 to 7:00 a.m. The study was conducted in a general hospital in Germany where such an early start of work is still common practice. An activity analysis was carried out using non-participant observation. One surgical and one medical ward were used for comparison. The work on the wards was differently organized. The observed tasks were classified into direct care, indirect care, administrative, and other tasks. The distribution of these task categories over one hour and the percentage of time spent on these categories were compared. Both wards showed different working patterns and a different form of initiation of direct care (entering patients' rooms). Some possible reasons for these findings are offered and suggestions for further research are made.
Evaluation of a rapidly rotating shift system for tolerance of nurses to nightwork.	Fifteen female nurses, aged between 21 and 29 years and employed in an intensive care unit, were examined with the aim of evaluating their psychophysical adaptation to one of the most commonly used, rapidly rotating shift systems, the "metropolitan rota" (2-2-2-2), with the length of the shifts modified according to the work load (including night shifts of 10h) and with the start of the morning shift delayed (to 7 a.m.). Subjective evaluations of work load and psycho-physical conditions as well as performance measures (reaction time, search and memory test), blood pressure and heart rate were recorded at the start, middle and end of the work shifts on the last 4 days of the shift cycle, comprising one morning, one afternoon and two consecutive nights. During the shifts, plasma cortisol and urinary excretion rate of 6-sulphatoxymelatonin, adrenaline and noradrenaline were also recorded, as well as oral temperature and activity-sleep logs. The results showed that this rapidly rotating shift system including two consecutive night shifts does not significantly alter the normal circadian rhythms of the body, particularly as concerns performance levels, body temperature and hormone excretion. Moreover, the lengthening of the night shift to 10h can be considered acceptable in terms of work efficiency, provided that work load is reduced and there are sufficient rest pauses available to compensate for tiredness and sleepiness. On the other hand, the shortening of the day shifts to 7h and the delayed start of the morning shift to 7 a.m. appeared convenient in relation to both work load and sleep duration.
A randomized controlled trial of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (CODETRON) to determine its benefits in a rehabilitation program for acute occupational low back pain.	The authors report the results of a randomized controlled trial to examine the effectiveness of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS/CODETRON) when added to a standard exercise program for industrial workers with acute low back pain (LBP). Fifty-eight work-injured patients with LBP of 3-10 weeks duration were randomized into two groups that received actual or placebo stimulation in combination with the exercise regimen. The groups were compared on the primary outcome measures of disability, pain, and return to work. No significant differences between the experimental and placebo groups were discovered on any of the measured outcomes. Exercise alone, when continued over 4 weeks, reduced disability and pain scores significantly. Under the experimental conditions of this trial, no additional benefits of TENS/CODETRON were detected when added to an active exercise regimen.
Shiftwork and the older worker.	The number of workers employed on shiftwork is large, and it appears to be increasing. The impact of shiftwork on the occupational safety and health of workers is complex and involves both biological and behavioral variables. Current conceptual models propose that the impact of shiftwork, where night work is involved, increases with exposure. At some point the worker is said to reach a tolerance limit beyond which shiftwork is no longer safe. Sleep variables have proven to be sensitive markers for the effects of night shiftwork. Data from U.S. workers show a statistically significant interaction among age, gender, and shift for the workday sleep length of workers on permanent day, afternoon/evening, and night shifts. Sleep length declines with age for both male and female night workers, as well as for male workers on afternoon/evening shifts. In addition, female night workers in the 18-49 age range sleep significantly less than same-age male night workers. Nap behavior also varies with shift, but age and gender effects do not appear to account for the variance. The results support the assumption that most night shiftworkers are at risk even though they often give the appearance of being able to tolerate nocturnal work hours. However, it is not yet clear how age and gender are related to the social, circadian, and environmental factors that influence the sleep length of shiftworkers.
The influence of workload on the mental state of the primary health care physician.	The work factors involved in physicians' mental workload were analysed. The study settings were 116 physicians (general practitioners, paediatricians and residents in family programmes working in out-patient clinics) (Primary Health Care Centres) in Spain. The questionnaire used measured the mental workload and the work activity over a period of 5 days. The mental workload covered seven dimensions: mental effort, physical effort, difficulty, priority, modify standards of visit, overlap, and stress. Its Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.80. The mental workload correlated positively with all variables measuring the workload activity. However, when the multiple regression analysis (stepwise met) was assessed, only the number of room visits, the referrals by nurse to physician, the room emergencies, the level of administrative tasks, the patients with complex pathologies, and the workload adequacy remained significant. The physicians' years of experience did not correlate with mental workload. The influence of diverse work activities in each of the mental workload dimensions was investigated. We conclude that the number of patient visits and organizational factors determine physicians' mental workload.
Organizational characteristics and administrative strategies associated with staff turnover.	In a study at 55 hemodialysis facilities, turnover was not associated with organizational size, location, or ownership but varied according to administrative strategies. Technician turnover (32 percent) was lower in facilities with shorter hours and choice of work schedule even though workload was higher. Clerical turnover (36 percent) was reduced with lower workloads. Nursing turnover (31 percent) was reduced in facilities in operation longer with shorter hours but equivalent workloads. Administrative turnover was negligible.
Effects on health and social well-being of on-call shifts. An epidemiologic in the French National Electricity and Gas Supply Company.	An investigation of the effects on health and social well-being of on-call shift work to cover emergencies outside working hours has been carried out by Electricit de France-Gaz de France, the French national company that supplies gas and electricity. This transversal survey compared a group of workers exposed to on-call shift work (n = 145) with a group that was not (n = 195). Each subject completed a questionnaire about the demands of his work, state of health, psychologic equilibrium using the Langner scale, and the impact of his job on social and family life. A "weekly report form," completed for 3 consecutive weeks randomly selected using a sampling plan covering the entire year to take into account seasonal variations, was subsequently filled in by 115 of the group exposed to on-call shift work and 167 of those who were not, to investigate events occurring outside working hours and sleep. The findings show that the main demands of being on-call were telephone calls, which were five times more numerous during the weeks on-call; this was accompanied by a shorter sleeping time (a mean of 6.8 hours versus 7.4 hours during a normal week) and more frequent tiredness on waking up (25.7% vs 13.2%). No particular disorder was found more frequently in the exposed group, but the psychologic equilibrium and family and social life of the workers in the on-call shift group were disturbed: some variables in the questionnaire and indices calculated from some items revealed adverse effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Residents' performance before and after night call as evaluated by an indicator of creative thought.	The effects of sleep deprivation on medical personnel have received much attention. This study evaluates the effects of sleep loss on divergent-thinking (creative or innovative) processes as measured by the Torrance Test of Creative Thinking (TTCT). Anesthesia residents who had approximately 30 minutes sleep while being on-call were evaluated. These physicians had similar caffeine and nicotine consumption before and after the test. The results reported here demonstrate that postcall residents had TTCT scores that were appreciably below those scores of rested residents. Postcall verbal fluency was less among the on-call group than among the rested group (94.0 +/- 9.7 vs 101.8 +/- 9.8) as was figural originality (89.9 +/- 22.1 vs 113.3 +/- 20.3). These study results suggest that sleep deprivation affects divergent, or creative, thinking. Divergent-thinking processes are usually innovative and are used during complex problem-solving tasks. Further studies are needed on the effects of sleep deprivation. This information can then be used to help improve residents' working conditions and patient care.
Working conditions, maternity legislation, and preterm birth.	The review of the scientific literature on the role of employment-related physical activity suggests that prolonged standing and long working hours may increase the risk of preterm delivery. Although maternity legislation in many European countries has regulated work schedules and working conditions for pregnant women, none of the European countries except for France seems to have experienced a reduction in preterm rates. France has had both a comprehensive maternity legislation and a national program specifically aimed to reduce preterm birth. Despite the lack of reduction in preterm rates, paid maternity leave, guaranteed job protection, and regulation of hazardous working conditions remain a desirable societal goal for any industrialized nation.
Predicting duration of sleep from the three process model of regulation of alertness.	Irregular working hours severely disturb sleep and wakefulness. This paper presents a modification of the quantitative (computerised) three process model of regulation of alertness to predict duration of sleep in connection with irregular sleep patterns.
Adapting to phase shifts, I. An experimental model for jet lag and shift work.	An experimental model was developed to measure various behavioral and physiological parameters in a laboratory paradigm mimicking phase shifts that could occur in time-zone transitions and shift work rotas. Volunteers were exposed to 9-h pulses of bright light (1,200 lx) as follows: day (D)1: 1800-0300 h, D2: 2100-0600 h, and D3, 4, 5: 2400-0900 h, each period followed by 8 h darkness. Immediately following the last treatment, subjects resumed their baseline sleep/wake schedule in a normal environment, thus experiencing a rapid 9-h advance phase shift of local time cues. During the gradual delay shift, a progressive delay shift in the rhythms of urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s), temperature and alertness was evident (maximum shift: 9.13 +/- 0.83 h, 9.09 +/- 1.06, and 10.62 +/- 0.96 h, mean +/- SD, respectively). There were no important detrimental effects on behavioral variables. After the rapid 9-h phase advance, sleep patterns, temperature amplitude, aMT6s acrophase, alertness, and performance took at least 5 days to reestablish normal baseline patterns. This model provides an effective and inexpensive model to study adaptation strategies in real life.
Metabolic rate and the restorative function of sleep.	It has been shown that performance improves during sleep more rapidly after sleep deprivation than during normal sleep. Recovery after sleep deprivation is also characterized by a different sleep stage distribution and by a decreased metabolic rate compared to a normal night of sleep. The present study examined whether sleep during a period of increased metabolic rate was less restorative than a normal period of sleep. Twelve normal young adults participated for two 4-day periods. In each period, an undisturbed baseline sleep night was followed by baseline testing. On the subsequent night, Ss slept a total of 212 min, starting at 0200 h after consuming placebo or 400 mg of caffeine. After the nap, subjects remained awake for 41 h until beginning an undisturbed night of recover sleep. During the period of sleep loss, subjects remained at the sleep laboratory where they performed computer tests and MSLTs. The caffeine produced a significant increase in metabolic rate during the nap. Although total sleep time was held constant, there was an increase in stage 1 and a decrease in stage 4 sleep after caffeine use. Performance on addition and vigilance tasks was significantly decreased after the caffeine plus nap condition. However, no significant difference were found on the MSLT, and subjective vigor was significantly greater following the caffeine and nap combination. It was concluded that the beneficial effect of sleep in maintaining performance was decreased by increased physiological activation during sleep.
Use of melatonin in circadian rhythm disorders and following phase shifts.	Following abrupt phase shifts (real or simulated time zone changes, night shift work) there is desynchronisation between the internal circadian rhythms (including melatonin) and the external environment with consequent disturbances in sleep, mood and performance. In humans the pineal hormone melatonin has phase-shifting and resynchronising properties with regard to a number of circadian rhythms. Suitably timed melatonin administration hastened adaptation to phase shift and significantly improved self-rated jet lag in large numbers of time zone travellers. Preliminary results in night shift workers showed improved daytime sleep and night-time alertness. In simulated experiments, appropriately timed melatonin improved subjective sleep, alertness and performance and facilitated the readaptation of the melatonin rhythm following a rapid 9 h advance phase shift. Melatonin has also been assessed in circadian rhythm disorders with disturbed sleep (blindness and delayed sleep phase insomnia). Compared with placebo, melatonin significantly improved sleep and synchronised the sleep wake cycle in some blind subjects. Melatonin treatment significantly advanced the sleep onset time in delayed sleep phase insomnia. Taken together these findings suggest that melatonin is of benefit in facilitating adaptation to forced phase shifts and in conditions of circadian rhythm disturbance.
Cardiovascular risk factors and shift work in men living in Haute-Garonne, France]	The goal of this study was to examine the relationship between shift work and cardiovascular risk factors in a cross sectional survey.
Combined effects of shift work and life-style on the prevalence of insomnia, sleep deprivation and daytime sleepiness.	The combined effects of age, leisure-time physical activity, smoking, alcohol consumption, and different forms of shift work on the prevalence of sleep complaints and daytime sleepiness were studied among workers in industry, transport, and traffic.
Impact of the Libby Zion case on graduate medical education in internal medicine.	Residency training in New York State was substantially altered by the Libby Zion case. Work-hour limitations and augmented supervisory requirements changed the patterns of training--particularly in internal medicine--but with uncertain impacts on the quality of education and patient care. In this historical analysis, we review another major effect of the case: a substantial augmentation of the number of trainees. The need to maintain adequate inpatient staffing--within the ground rules of the Residency Review Committee, and in consideration of the reimbursement formulae and financial climate of New York State--conspired to promote substantial residency program expansion. Similar forces contributed to a national trend to increase the number of trainees. The history, cost and impact of these personnel changes are reviewed.
Job strain and arterial blood pressure, serum cholesterol, and smoking as risk factors for coronary heart disease in Japan.	To determine the effects of the job demands-control model on arterial blood pressure, serum total cholesterol, and smoking in male daytime and rotating-shift workers in Japan.
Tobacco use and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke in relation to certain work characteristics.	This study aims to describe the prevalence of smoking, snuff use, and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) in relation to occupation among common female and male workers in Sweden. The associations between shift work, job strain, and tobacco use and exposure to ETS are assessed. The results are based on questionnaire data of 2,584 men and 2,836 women randomly selected from 63 occupations in two counties in Sweden. The prevalence of smoking ranges from 10% (95% CI 4.5-16%, police officers) to 42% (95% CI 29-55%, packing workers) in men, and between 8% (95% CI 2-14%, dentists) and 51% (95% CI 37-65%, packing workers) in women. Snuff use is more common among men (range 11-44% in different occupations) than among women (range 0-7%). The prevalence of exposure to passive smoking in this study ranges from 0.9% to 26% in men and from 0% to 30% in women. Shiftwork is significantly associated with current smoking, and job strain is significantly related to exposure to ETS. Ages between 18 and 29 years experienced an increased risk of exposure to ETS compared to older age groups. In conclusion, this study shows that tobacco use and exposure to ETS is still a major problem in the Swedish workplace.
Promoting alertness with a short nap during a night shift.	The use of a short (< 1 h) nap in improving alertness during the early morning hours in the first night shift was examined under laboratory conditions. The study contained four experimental, non-consecutive night shifts with a nap of either 50 or 30 min at 01.00 or 04.00 hours. An experimental night shift without a nap served as a control condition. Each experimental shift was followed by daytime sleep. Fourteen experienced male shift workers went through all of the experimental conditions. The results showed that the naps improved the ability to respond to visual signals during the second half of the night shift. Physiological sleepiness was alleviated by the early naps, as measured 50 min after awakening, but not at the end of the shift. Subjective sleepiness was somewhat decreased by the naps. The naps produced sleep inertia which lasted for about 10-15 min. Daytime sleep was somewhat impaired by the 50 min naps. The study shows that a nap shorter than 1 h is able to improve alertness to a certain extent during the first night shift.
Sleep and alertness during alternating monophasic and polyphasic rest-activity cycles.	People involved in shift work often have to face altered patterns of sleep and wakefulness. This is particularly true for schedules involving night shifts and/or fragmentation of duty periods throughout the 24-hr day. In such conditions, it can be difficult to obtain satisfactory periods of sleep, and sleepiness on duty is a frequent and dangerous occurrence. The aim of this study was to evaluate sleep and wakefulness periods of subjects whose work schedule was characterized by an alternation of 2 hours of activity and 4 hours of rest (sleep allowed), repeated 4 times throughout the 24-hr day. This schedule was alternated with 24 hours off duty. Nine healthy male volunteers were monitored by means of ambulatory polysomnography while attending their 24-hr rest-activity schedule. Sleep periods were visually scored according to standard criteria. Wake periods were visually scored using both 30 s and 5 s epochs in order to reveal episodes of drowsiness and/or microsleep. Results showed that total sleep time was substantially reduced as compared to the usual 7-8 hour monophasic nocturnal sleep. Subjects did not sleep during the first rest period (11.00-15.00). Time in sleep linearly increased in the course of the 3 remaining rest periods. Normal sleep stage distribution was substantially spared only in the last rest period (3.00-7.00 a.m.). With regard to duty periods, only a few microsleeps were detected and their number did not significantly vary across the four 2-hr activity periods. In conclusion, this rest-activity schedule, despite the considerable sleep reduction, allowed maintaining good levels of vigilance as shown by the virtual absence of EEG microsleeps. Whether future research will prove that this regimen does not cause an impairment of performance, it should be a suitable strategy for the management of continuous operations.
Evaluation of work-rest schedules with respect to the effects of postural workload in standing work.	The influence of four work-rest schedules (60-min shift-15-min break, 45-15, 30-15, 30-30) on acute effects of physical workload in the back and legs due to standing work was investigated in 12 poultry inspectors. Subjective discomfort in the legs and back, and swelling in the distal lower leg were significantly affected, with the 60-15 schedule leading to a higher postural load as compared with the other schedules. No effect on spinal shrinkage was found. It was concluded that the 60-15 schedule should be avoided. An optimal work-rest schedule considering visco-elastic deformation of the spine would probably involve frequent short breaks, whereas longer breaks would seem more effective considering leg swelling.
Joint effect of shift work and adverse life-style factors on the risk of coronary heart disease.	The joint effect of shift work and certain adverse life-style factors on coronary heart disease (CHD) was studied.
