Treatment of persistently leaking post PEG tube gastrocutaneous fistula in elderly patients with combined electrochemical cautery and endoscopic clip placement.	Persistent leakage from a gastrocutaneous fistula (GCF) created for the purpose of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement is a common problem in elderly patients. Conservative methods often prove unsuccessful and surgical closure is usually not performed because of poor surgical risk. With advances in endoscopic technology, several nonsurgical approaches have emerged. These new methods have been reported in the past as case reports. The purpose of this study is to report a case series of eleven elderly patients with persistent leakage from gastrocutaneous fistulas who underwent combined electrochemical cautery and endoscopic clip placement.
Does surgical closure technique affect early mammographic detection of tumor recurrence after breast-conserving therapy?	Scarring in the tumor bed may mask or mimic local recurrence of tumor on surveillance mammography. Type of surgical closure technique used during lumpectomy may impact the pattern or density of scar tissue apparent in the tumor bed on mammography. This study sought to determine whether surgical closure type affects tumor-bed scar formation and impacts interpretation of surveillance mammography in women treated with breast-conserving therapy for early-stage breast cancer.
Knee arthrotomy repair with a continuous barbed suture: a biomechanical study.	We compared knee arthrotomy closures using interrupted biodegradable sutures and running bidirectionally barbed sutures in cadaveric specimens subjected to cyclic loading. During the initial 2000 flexion cycles, both groups maintained closure and no suture ruptured. Suture throws were then sequentially cut to weaken the repairs, and the knees were cyclically flexed after each cut. Both types of suture repairs survived the cutting of the first throw or stitch and subsequent cyclical testing. However, there was a significant difference in the repairs after multiple cuts (log-rank test, P < .003). None of the knees in the interrupted suture group survived more than 3 cuts, whereas in the barbed repair group, it took the severing of as many as 7 throws for failure to occur.
A combination of subcuticular sutures and a drain for skin closure reduces wound complications in obese women undergoing surgery using vertical incisions.	Obesity is a risk factor for surgical site or wound complications in women undergoing surgery involving vertical incisions. Several investigators have reported the efficacy of subcutaneous drains in minimising the complication rate but there is no consensus on using these for surgery in obese patients. In 2006, the Scottish Surveillance of Healthcare Associated Infection Programme showed that using subcuticular sutures rather than staples to close incisions significantly reduced the risk of surgical site infection. Before January 2008 (group 1; N = 40), wound complications occurred in some obese patients in our hospital after obstetric and gynaecological surgery when only staples were used for skin closure. In January 2008 (group 2; N = 31), we changed the method of skin closure for obese patients [body mass index (BMI) > 28 kg/m(2)] and we now use a subcutaneous drain with four channels along the running tube and subcuticular sutures with interrupted, buried 4-0 polydioxanone sutures. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of these interventions for skin closure in obese women. The general characteristics (age, weight and BMI) were similar between the two groups. There were no wound complications in group 2. In group 1, wound disruptions and a seroma occurred in five (12.5%) and one (2.5%) patients, respectively. The wound complication rate in group 2 was significantly lower than that in group 1 (P = 0.0319). Thus, new materials and techniques for skin closure can reduce the wound complication rate in obese women.
Morphological changes of tissues in formation of a welding suture on the large intestine]	Abdominoanal resection with descending of left colon on perineum, leaving additional part of a descended intestine, was performed. For the hemorrhage arrest the welding sutures were put on intestinal wall. According to morphological investigations data, a damage of intestinal wall in the zone of a welding suture application is a reversible one, it spreads from the electrode branch on 2-3 mm. The presence of undamaged structures witnesses the presence of an active regeneration process in tissues around the welding suture.
Adhesive strips versus subcuticular suture for mediansternotomy wound closure.	This prospective randomized study was undertaken to compare the use of the 3M™ Steri-Strip™ S Surgical Skin closure system with a running absorbable subcuticular suture technique for skin closure following a mediansternotomy for cardiac surgical procedures.
Figure-of-eight versus prophylactic sternal weave closure of median sternotomy in diabetic obese patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.	Sternal dehiscence is a serious and potentially devastating complication after median sternotomy, especially in diabetic obese patients. The optimal technique for sternal closure is unclear in these patients.
Management of facial soft tissue injuries in children.	Pediatric facial trauma can present a challenge to even the more experienced plastic surgeon. Injuries to the head and neck may involve bone and soft tissues with an assortment of specialized organs and tissue elements involved. Because of the active nature of children, facial soft tissue injuries can be diverse and extensive as well as some of the more common injuries a plastic surgeon is asked to treat. In 2007, approximately 800,000 patients younger than 15 years presented to emergency departments around the country with significant open wounds of the head that required treatment.In this review, we present the different types and regions of pediatric soft tissue facial trauma, as well as treatment options and goals of plastic surgery wound management. Special aspects, such as bite wounds, burns, pediatric analgesia, and antibiotic therapy, are also discussed.
Exteriorized versus in-situ repair of the uterine incision at cesarean delivery: a randomized controlled trial.	To compare advantages and disadvantages of exteriorized and in situ repair techniques of uterine incision during cesarean section.
A "watch window" technique for monitoring buried free jejunum flaps during circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy reconstruction.	The free jejunum flap approach is the optimal option for circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy reconstruction. In this study, we designed a "watch window" for monitoring buried free jejunum flaps, thereby allowing us to assess graft viability. From 2007 to 2011, 14 patients with hypopharyngeal cancer underwent circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy that was reconstructed using a free jejunum flap at the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Centre. During the closing of the neck incision, a "watch window" was designed for postoperative monitoring. Two patients experienced thrombosis of the pedicle. One was detected early and successfully rescued by removal of the thrombosis, the other one managed with a second free jejunum flap. The success rate of the buried flaps was 92.9%. No pharyngocutaneous fistulas or strictures occurred. All patients eventually resumed oral feeding and swallowing. The "watch window" technique for monitoring buried free jejunum flaps is simple, reliable and useful for finding vascular problems. Level of evidence Case series.
Current progress on natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES).	Natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) has received considerable interest in recent years as a novel surgical technique. Here, we aim to review the current progress on NOTES, particularly focusing on the advantages and complications related to NOTES, the recent advances of surgical approaches, new instruments for closure of the natural orifice incision, and the newly developed platform for NOTES. Finally, we make a prediction of the conceivable applications of NOTES on human subjects.
New laser soldering-based closures: a promising method in natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery.	Complete closure of gastrotomy is the linchpin of safe natural orifice transgastric endoscopic surgery.
Delayed sternal closure after pediatric cardiac operations; single center experience: a retrospective study.	Delayed sternal closure (DSC) after cardiac surgery is a therapeutic option in the treatment of the severely impaired heart in pediatric cardiac surgery. The results with the technique of DSC over a 4-year period are examined with regard to mortality and morbidity.
Comparison of short-term results of modified Karydakis flap and modified Limberg flap for pilonidal sinus surgery.	The aim of this study was to compare and analyze the short term results of modified Karydakis flap reconstruction (MKF) and modified Limberg flap reconstruction (MLF). This is a retrospective analysis of 81 patients operated for pilonidal sinus disease. There were 46 patients in MLF group and 35 patients in MKF group. We compared patients age, BMI, operation time, removal time of suction drain, time of feeling completely healed, type of presentation, complications, postoperative 1., 3., 5. Days VAS scores, time to stop analgesic drugs and time to sit on chair or throne without pain. Complication rate, analgesic drug stopping time, postoperative 5. days VAS score were lower in MLF group and there were significant difference between groups. MLF group patients feel better (P: 0.010), they recommended this operation to other pilonidal sinus patients (P: 0.010) and 36 of them rated their satisfaction excellent and 10 of them good (P: 0.010). MLF procedure was more comfortable for patients. Lesser pain, lower complication and recurrence rates and higher patient satisfaction were detected in MLF group.
Delayed repair of myelomeningoceles.	Myelomeningocele is a defect that typically is repaired surgically within the first few days of life in developed countries to minimize the risk of meningitis. If left unrepaired, these children may survive to have their meningocele sac epithelialize. The surgical reduction and closure of an epithelialized myelomeningocele represents a unique challenge for the neurosurgeon because it requires a modification of the typical closure technique.
A simple sheath removal after open trans-femoral catheterization procedure: the ZIP technique.	The ZIP technique, a surgical equivalent of the 'Preclose' technique, useful for transcatheter aortic valve implantation or endovascular aortic aneurysm repair is described. While percutaneous closure devices are expensive, need a long learning curve and are associated with primary failure, the ZIP technique is easy and allows a quick, safe and anatomical closure of the artery. This procedure avoids arterial cross-clamping and no purse-string effect was demonstrated using Doppler ultrasound examination. 
Outcome of limited forefoot amputation with primary closure in patients with diabetes.	Limited forefoot amputation in diabetic patients with osteomyelitis is frequently required. We retrospectively reviewed diabetic patients with osteomyelitis, an unhealed ulcer and blood pressure in the toe of > 45 mmHg who underwent limited amputation of the foot with primary wound closure. Between 2006 and 2012, 74 consecutive patients with a mean age of 67 years (29 to 93), and a median follow-up of 31 months, were included. All the wounds healed primarily at a median of 37 days (13 to 210; mean 48). At a median of 6 months (1.5 to 18; mean 353 days), 23 patients (31%) suffered a further ulceration. Of these, 12 patients (16% of the total) required a further amputation. We conclude that primary wound closure following limited amputation of the foot in patients with diabetes is a safe and effective technique when associated with appropriate antibiotic treatment.
Results of Li-Tho trial: a prospective randomized study on effectiveness of LigaSure® in lung resections.	The role of electro-thermal bipolar tissue sealing system (LigaSure(®), (LS); Covidien, Inc., CO, USA) in thoracic surgery is still undefined. Reports of its use are still limited. The objective of the trial was to evaluate the cost and benefits of LS in major lung resection surgery.
Omental pedicle flaps following proctectomy: a systematic review.	Abdominoperineal excision (APR) for cancer carries significant morbidity of the perineal wound. An omental pedicle graft has been used to fill the pelvis and limit attendant complications after radical extirpation of the anorectum. A review of the literature was conducted to determine whether omentoplasty following APR reduces perineal wound complications.
Omentoplasty to assist perineal defect closure following laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection.	This technical note describes laparoscopic production of a well vascularized, omental flap of adequate size to fill the pelvic floor defect in the course of laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection (LAPR).
Primary closure versus delayed closure for non bite traumatic wounds within 24 hours post injury.	Acute traumatic wounds are one of the common reasons why people present to the emergency department. Primary closure has traditionally been reserved for traumatic wounds presenting within six hours of injury and considered 'clean' by the attending surgeon, with the rest undergoing delayed primary closure as a means of controlling wound infection. Primary closure has the potential benefit of rapid wound healing but poses the potential threat of increased wound infection. There is currently no evidence to guide clinical decision-making on the best timing for closure of traumatic wounds.
Robotic kidney transplantation with intraoperative regional hypothermia.	To describe a novel and reproducible technique of robotic kidney transplantation (RKT) that requires no repositioning, and permits intraoperative regional hypothermia.
Multivariate model for predicting postoperative blood loss in children undergoing cardiac surgery: a preliminary study.	Postoperative bleeding and blood product transfusion increase morbidity, mortality, and costs after cardiac surgery. However, factors that could accurately predict bleeding have not been well studied in children undergoing cardiac surgery. This study aims at determining factors that could be used to predict postoperative bleeding in this paediatric population.
Soft-tissue wound healing by anti-advanced glycation end-products agents.	The blocking of advanced glycation end-products (AGE) has been shown to reduce diabetic complications and control periodontitis. This study investigated the pattern of palatal wound-healing after graft harvesting under the administration of aminoguanidine (AG), an AGE inhibitor, or N-phenacylthiazolium bromide (PTB), a glycated cross-link breaker. Full-thickness palatal excisional wounds (5.0 x 1.5 mm(2)) were created in 72 Sprague-Dawley rats. The rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of normal saline (control), AG, or PTB and were euthanized after 4 to 28 days. The wound-healing pattern was assessed by histology, histochemistry for collagen matrix deposition, immunohistochemistry for AGE and the AGE receptor (RAGE), and the expression of RAGE, as well as inflammation- and recovery-associated genes. In the first 14 days following AG or PTB treatments, wound closure, re-epithelialization, and collagen matrix deposition were accelerated, whereas AGE deposition, RAGE-positive cells, and inflammation were reduced. RAGE and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were significantly down-regulated at day 7, and heme oxygenase-1 was persistently down-regulated until day 14. The levels of vascular endothelial growth factor, periostin, type I collagen, and fibronectin were all increased at day 14. In conclusion, anti-AGE agents appeared to facilitate palatal wound-healing by reducing AGE-associated inflammation and promoting the recovery process. 
Management of mastectomy skin flap necrosis in autologous breast reconstruction.	Mastectomy skin flap necrosis is a significant problem in the autologous breast reconstruction. The necrosis may create unsightly scarring, produce contour irregularities, and deform the breast mound. This may lead to a poor reconstruction and patient satisfaction. Most importantly, the development and treatment of mastectomy skin flap necrosis can delay further oncologic treatment.We performed a retrospective chart review of all patients undergoing autologous breast reconstruction in the past 5 years to examine our incidence and treatment of mastectomy skin flap necrosis. We then used these data to create a management algorithm for mastectomy skin flap necrosis. The goals of this algorithm were as follows: (1) to not delay further oncologic treatment, (2) to expedite the healing time while minimizing patient risk, and (3) to create an aesthetically pleasing breast reconstruction.
Endoscopic tissue shielding with polyglycolic acid sheets, fibrin glue and clips to prevent delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic resection.	The incidence of delayed perforation after endoscopic resection for superficial non-ampullary duodenal epithelial tumors is extremely high. Endoscopic tissue shielding with polyglycolic acid (PGA) sheets and fibrin glue is a promising method to prevent delayed perforation after endoscopic resection in the duodenum. However, we often encounter difficulty when covering an artificial ulcer with PGA sheets after endoscopic resection. We report three cases of postoperative ulcers covered by PGA sheets, fibrin glue, and clips. 
Endoscopic tissue shielding method with polyglycolic acid sheets and fibrin glue to prevent delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic submucosal dissection.	Delayed perforation after duodenal endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) occurs at a high rate because the duodenal wall is very thin and the artificial ulcer after resection is exposed to bile and pancreatic juice. We investigated the application of the combination of a polyglycolic acid (PGA) sheet and fibrin glue. PGA sheets comprise materials widely used in surgery for absorbable thread. Fibrin glue is a heated blood product and is used for hemostasis during operations. We developed a combined method using both materials. We have used this method in two cases. One case involved an elevated lesion located in the lower duodenal angle of the duodenum. The other involved an elevated lesion in the second portion of the duodenum. About 1 week after ESD, the PGA sheets remained covering the ulcer and delayed perforation did not occur. We were able to easily carry out this method for several parts of the duodenum. This method may be helpful for the prevention of delayed perforation after duodenal ESD. 
Minimally invasive percutaneous osteosynthesis with intramedullary nail and close reduction by manipulation for the treatment of femoral shaft fractures]	To explore the technique and clinical results of close reduction by manipulation and minimally invasive percutaneous osteosynthesis with intramedullary nail for the treatment of femur shaft fractures. methods: A retrospective study was conducted to analyze 96 patients with the femur shaft fractures who had been treated with close reduction by manipulation and minimally invasive percutaneous osteosynthesis with intramedullary nail. There were 67 males and 29 females. The average age of patients was 39 years old (ranging from 16 to 88). According to AO fracture classification for the femur shaft fractures,there were 29 cases of type A,46 type B,21 type C.
