Diagnosis of postpartum infections: clinical criteria are better than laboratory parameter.	Physiologic increases in the leukocyte count and segmental neutrophil percentage during pregnancy alter the ability of these indices to predict infection.
Effects of an activated charcoal silver dressing on chronic wounds with no clinical signs of infection.	This exploratory, clinical study aimed to explore the effect of an activated charcoal silver dressing (intervention) with cleansing and debridement (control) in reducing the level of bacteria in chronic wounds with no clinical signs of local infection.
Infected abdominal sacrocolpopexies: diagnosis and treatment.	The abdominal sacrocolpopexy is an excellent procedure to surgically treat vaginal vault prolapse. A synthetic graft is often used to support the vaginal apex, but has the potential to become infected or erode, requiring its removal or revision. The purpose of this paper is to report our experience in the management of patients with infected synthetic grafts after abdominal sacrocolpopexy. A review of the patient databases from three specialty gynecology centers was performed from March 1996 to June 2002. Only patients with an infected graft after an abdominal sacrocolpopexy were included in the study; patients with either suture or graft erosion responding to conservative treatment were excluded. Twenty-two women, ages 37-73 years, developed infection of the synthetic graft after an abdominal sacrocolpopexy (1-60 months after their initial surgery, mean 8.8 months). The infected materials included polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE, Goretex, n =15) and polypropylene (n=7). Nine of the 15 PTFE meshes and four of the seven polypropylene meshes were placed at the time of a contaminated case (abdominal hysterectomy [n=12], colon resection [n=1]). Eighteen (82%) of the infected grafts involved braided permanent suture to attach the graft to the vaginal wall, monofilament/non-braided permanent suture was used in three patients, and suture type could not be determined in one. All graft removals were attempted vaginally, and this was successful in 16 cases (73%). Two patients experienced significant bleeding: the first patient required an emergency laparotomy and the second patient's bleeding was controlled with packing. A rectovaginal fistula occurred 3 weeks postoperatively in one patient. Synthetic graft infection should be considered as the differential diagnosis in a patient who has undergone an abdominal sacrocolpopexy. Transvaginal removal is preferred, but is fraught with potentially serious complications. The use of braided permanent sutures to affix the graft to the vagina may be associated with mesh infections.
Management of human and animal bite wounds: an overview.	Serious infections can result from wounds that are caused by bites from animals and humans. Organisms recovered from bite wounds generally originate from the oral cavity of the biting animal, as well as from the patient's skin flora. Anaerobes have been isolated from animal and human bite wound infections, especially those associated with abscess formation. In addition to local wound infections, common complications, such as lymphangitis, septic arthritis, tenosynovitis, and osteomyelitis, and uncommon complications, such as endocarditis, meningitis, brain abscess, and sepsis, may occur. Wound management includes proper local care and, when needed, antimicrobial therapy.
Microbiology of chronic leg and pressure ulcers: clinical significance and implications for treatment.	Chronic pressure ulcers and leg ulcers are common, especially in the elderly, and are a source of much distress and disability. Health care providers must distinguish between clinically unimportant but predictable colonization of these wounds and clinically relevant infection.Infection may present as increased local pain, cellulitis, local abscess,necrotizing fasciitis, osteomyelitis, bacteremia, or sepsis. For most of these conditions, systemic antibiotics are necessary. The use of topical antimicrobial agents as a means of promoting healing in clinically uninfected wounds is a subject of active investigation at this time. Currently, evidence is insufficient to support routine use of anti-microbial agents for this purpose. A quantitative tissue culture taken from the ulcer bed, revealing greater than 10(5) organisms/g of tissue appears to increase the risk of failure of ulcer wound closure by graft or flap. A short course of topical or systemic antibiotics before surgery in these instances is advisable.
Effect of placental-extract gel and cream on non-healing wounds.	To compare the effects of topical placental-extract gel and cream in the treatment of chronic non-healing wounds with regard to wound healing and discomfort during dressing change.
Surgical and traumatic wound infections, cellulitis, and myositis in horses.	Surgical site infections (SSIs) and traumatic wound management remain challenging clinical scenarios. The prevention of SSIs involves meticulous surgical technique and aftercare. Traumatic wounds require thorough evaluation to assess the involvement of synovial structures and radiographs to check for fractures. Chronic wounds can require a biopsy and histologic evaluation to obtain a diagnosis, because many underlying pathologic processes grossly appear similar but different treatment regimens are required. Early recognition and diagnosis of cellulitis and myositis enable the rapid aggressive intervention necessary for a positive outcome. Any delay in diagnosis and treatment increases the complication and mortality rates and makes these conditions difficult to treat successfully.
Recurring and antimicrobial-resistant infections:considering the potential role of biofilms in clinical practice.	Micro-organisms commonly produce biofilm, a polymeric matrix that is adherent to inert or living substances and frequently forms on environmental surfaces, medical devices, and traumatized or compromised living and nonviable necrotic tissues such as wounds. The micro-organisms in a biofilm interact with each other and their environment. They are refractory to conventional therapy and resist conventional methods for culturing; their coordinated activities can lessen the effect of antimicrobials and the host's defenses. The multifactorial mechanism of resistance varies and depends, in part, on the strain of the micro-organism. A biofilm is dynamic and may shed bacteria or bacteria may be released by trauma, resulting in local or systemic infectious disease. Released bacteria lose their protection - they become responsive to appropriate levels of antimicrobials and may be cultured using conventional culturing methods. Micro-organisms in biofilms may remain dormant for weeks or years before causing local or systemic signs and symptoms of infection and are commonly responsible for recurring infections after repeated trials of antibiotics. Most biofilm infection-related research findings have not reached clinical practice yet. However, clinician knowledge about the development of and difficulties culturing micro-organisms in biofilms and their resistance to antibiotics and biocides may lead to improved clinical outcomes in soft tissue and bone infections and the treatment of wounds.
An unrecognized foreign body in the parotid gland after trauma.	Foreign bodies within the parotid gland retained after trauma are rarely observed, due in part to ease of detection. Few, however, particularly wooden foreign bodies, may not be identified clinically and radiologically.
Trauma-related infections in battlefield casualties from Iraq.	To describe risks for, and microbiology and antimicrobial resistance patterns of, war trauma associated infections from Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Identifying and treating wound infection.	The presence of infection is a major causative factor for delayed or nonhealing wounds. Indiscriminate and routine wound cultures are not recommended, but after the clinical diagnosis of infection is made, culture is recommended to identify the causative organisms and guide antibiotic therapy. The purpose of this article is to discuss how to identify and confirm wound infection and the use of topical and systemic antibiotic agents to treat wound infection.
Soft-tissue infections after trauma.	Soft-tissue infections are best prevented by proper initial management of the wound. When they do occur, they produce certain characteristic physical signs, the appearance of which mandates prompt operative intervention. The extent of debridement is determined by the intraoperative findings. Diagnostic categorization of the infection is performed postoperatively on the basis of the level of soft-tissue involvement and the results of bacterial cultures.
Survey of fungi and yeast in polymicrobial infections in chronic wounds.	To assess the incidence, abundance and species diversity of fungi in chronic wounds, as well as to describe the associations of major fungi populations.
Infection, wounds and local treatments]	Infection is the result of complex interactions between bacteria, the host, treatments and the wound environment. The clinical signs and the diagnosis can be obvious, subclinical or relate to an intermediary situation rather than a confirmed infection. Suitable local treatments do not automatically involve the use of antibacterial drugs and consist in washing and draining the wound with appropriate dressings. The local treatment of the infected wound is set to develop further in order to be more effective with regard to both the biofilm as well as the circulating bacteria.
A severely infected diabetic foot treated successfully without using systemic antibiotics.	About 50% to 70% of all lower extremity amputations are related to diabetes infection. And antibiotic therapy is routinely used for all infected wounds to reduce the mortality of diabetic foot. Here, we report a case of diabetic foot with acute and deep severe infection. During hospital therapy, we used negative pressure therapy and extensive debridement without systemic antibiotic application, and we successfully rescued a foot from amputation. Negative pressure therapy and extensive debridement are very important and effective methods to control infection and promote wound healing in diabetes foot.
Atypical agents of wound infection and targeted samples]	All open wounds are primarily contaminated and subsequently colonized by microorganisms, predominantly bacteria. Only about 30% of chronic wounds are also infected. Factors which favor the development of infection are the following: large quantity of bacteria, presence of virulence factors, their quantity and number, predominantly the synergy of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, and formation of biofilm. Common agents of infection of acute and chronic wounds are Staphylococcus aureus, MRSA, Streptococcus beta-haemolyticus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Bacteroides spp., and Candida albicans. Difference between acute and chronic wound is in the predominance of individual agents, with an observation that Staphylococcus aureus is predominant in both cases. Atypical agents of chronic wound infection are rare, unusual, not found in the area in which we live, not proven by standard microbiological methods, but molecular methods are needed instead. They are predominantly opportunists, varying in the expression of virulence factors, or they have changed their phenotype characteristics and are not the agents of primary wound infections. They are the agents of secondary infections. Atypical agents of the chronic wound infection are diverse, from the anaerobe group, Peptoniphilus spp., Anaerococcus spp., Bacteroides ureolyticus, Finegoldia magma, the group of gram positive rods of the Corynebacterium genus, the group of bacteria from aquatic environment Mycobacterium fortuitum complex, and Vibrio alginolyticus. The targeted samples are biopsy sample as the "gold standard" and/or aspirate, when a significant quantity of exudate is present. Targeted samples are obligatory when there is a progression and decomposition of the base of the wound, increase in the size or depth of the wound, isolation of multiresistant microbes, or absence of clinical response to empirical antimicrobial therapy. In the diagnosis of opportunistic pathogens or atypical agents of chronic wound infection, it is necessary to be thorough, meticulous, and conduct revision of the patient, diagnosis, treatment and samples. Crucial for the detection of the agents atypical wound infection is discussion and agreement with clinical microbiologist. Essential for the quality diagnosis is decontamination of the wound before taking targeted samples. The targeted sample is biopsy specimen as the "gold standard", less frequently aspirate, depending on the quantity and content of the wound. Swab as a sample is not recommended. If there is no other choice, only exceptionally surface swabs may be taken, but only under the following conditions: decontamination of the wound with the application of Levine's or Z-technique of taking of swabs.
Silver from polyurethane dressing is delivered by gradient to exudate, tissue, and serum of patients undergoing negative-pressure wound treatment.	This study aimed to evaluate the distribution and concentration of silver eluted from silver-coated polyurethane dressing (V.A.C. GranuFoam Silver Dressing; KCI, San Antonio, Texas) in vitro and in patients undergoing negative-pressure wound therapy (NPWT).
Intraoperative Gram's staining of bile as a guide for early selective administration of antibiotics.	A prospective clinicobacteriological study was undertaken in 100 patients undergoing biliary surgery, to assess the influence on the postoperative course of early antibiotic treatment that was instituted in accordance with the results of intraoperative Gram's staining of gallbladder bile. The wound infection rate was found to be 9% and there wee no other septic complications. The sensitivity of Gram's staining as compared with the results of bile cultures was found to be 65.5%. This study provides additional evidence of the value of Gram's staining of bile as a means for the early discovery of pathogens and early institution of antibiotic therapy, both important factors in lowering the rate of infective postoperative complications.
Bacteriological swabs in hip surgery.	A prospective trial was carried out in 70 patients undergoing elective total hip replacement, in order to correlate bacterial contaminants in the wound at operation with the subsequent clinical results. A new method of collecting bacteria via a swab left in the wound for the duration of the operation proved to be as effective as the conventional swabbing technique in patients with known previous hip sepsis who, following revision surgery, showed evidence of further infection.
Problems in diagnosis and therapy of Mycobacterium fortuitum infections.	Mycobacterium fortuitum was isolated 11 times from 8 patients during a 6-year period. Six of the isolates were from sputum; one was from aspiration of a lymph node, and 4 were from wound cultures. The isolation from sputum was believed not to be associated with pulmonary infection in all 6 instances. The difficulty in diagnosis and therapy of infections with Mycobacterium fortuitum is illustrated by these cases and by others from the literature. Amikacin and doxycycline may offer some therapeutic benefit for patients with Mycobacterium fortuitum infections.
Principles of biochemical diagnosis of early infection process]	The paper outlines major achievements of biochemical diagnosis of a wound infectious process. Various classifications of its methods are given. The most promising approaches to predictive diagnosis of wound suppuration, pyoresorptive fever and sepsis are discussed.
