Exoftalmos and palpebral ptosis in the immunocompromised patient]	The mucormycosis is an opportunistic mycosis which has a high rate of global mortality with a bad prognosis. The present clinical case shows a patient attended in the Intensive Care Unit because of a breathing insufficiency secondary to a pneumonia. Among his antecedents there is a larynx carcinoma totally remittent after chemo- and radiotherapy. He develops an infrapalpebral injury which spreads rapidly in a bilateral way acquiring a necrotic look that it did not have initially. Having that evolution, it is implemented a treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and granulocyte colony-stimulating factors after an injury biopsy, whose posterior cultive shows growing of Mucor. This kind of pathology must be initially suspected in all the patients with a neoplasia and its treatment must be early and agressive. At the moment the diagnosis is suspected there is a great tissue destruction and for that reason the patients usually die in spite of the instauration of aggressive therapies
Two cases of severe sepsis due to Vibrio vulnificus wound infection acquired in the Baltic Sea.	Two severe cases of Vibrio vulnificus wound infection with secondary septicemia occurred during 1 week in August 2003 on the German island of Usedom in the southwestern Baltic Sea. In both cases, pre-existing wounds were inoculated by wading in contaminated sea water. One of the patients died from septic multiorgan failure. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first fatality due to a V. vulnificus infection to have occurred in Germany. Microbiological analysis revealed high concentrations of V. vulnificus in sea water along the coastline, following a period when water temperature exceeded 20 degrees C for more than 2 weeks.
Osteomyelitis caused by Enterobacter cancerogenus infection following a traumatic injury: case report and review of the literature.	We report a case of osteomyelitis caused by Enterobacter cancerogenus resistant to aminopenicillins in a 56-year-old male who had a motorcycle accident and suffered from multiple bone fractures with abundant environmental exposure. E. cancerogenus has rarely been associated with human infections, and its clinical significance remains unclear.
Tetanus and trauma: a review and recommendations.	This review covers the pathogenesis and treatment of the disease along with the reexamination of the current recommendations for prophylaxis against tetanus in the United States. Although tetanus is still a major problem worldwide, the incidence in North America has become almost negligible because of the highly effective primary immunization program. Recently, there have been no deaths reported attributable to tetanus in the United States in trauma patients who had received the primary childhood immunization. However, tetanus immunization and prophylaxis in the acute injury setting is frequently misused and misunderstood.
Indications for a bridging plate osteosynthesis of compound femoral shaft fractures]	We performed the clinical and radiological follow-up of 29 comminuted fractures of the femoral shaft treated by bridging plate osteosynthesis. Complete bone healing in 6 open fractures took place within 33 weeks, in 15 closed fractures within 22 weeks. We had to meet 5 postoperative complications: 2 cases of osteomyelitis following open fractures, 1 early wound infection and 2 haematomas. Primary cancellous bone grafting we found unnecessary in all of the 29 fractures. We recommend the technique of bridging plate osteosynthesis for the stabilization of comminuted fractures of the femur especially under the clinical circumstances as follows: 1. Polytrauma, 2. Metaphyseal or condylar fracture, 3. Open fracture, 4. Redisplacement, 5. Fracture in children.
The neuropathic diabetic foot.	Diabetic foot problems are common throughout the world, and result in major medical, social and economic consequences for the patients, their families, and society. Foot ulcers are likely to be of neuropathic origin and, therefore, are eminently preventable. Individuals with the greatest risk of ulceration can easily be identified by careful clinical examination of their feet: education and frequent follow-up is indicated for these patients. When infection complicates a foot ulcer, the combination can be limb-threatening, or life-threatening. Infection is defined clinically, but wound cultures assist in identification of causative pathogens. Tissue specimens are strongly preferred to wound swabs for wound cultures. Antimicrobial therapy should be guided by culture results, and although such therapy may cure the infection, it does not heal the wound. Alleviation of the mechanical load on ulcers (offloading) should always be a part of treatment. Plantar neuropathic ulcers typically heal in 6 weeks with nonremovable casts, because pressure at the ulcer site is mitigated and compliance is enforced. The success of other approaches to offloading similarly depends on the patient's adherence to the strategy used for pressure relief.
Superantigens and toxic shock syndrome. A report of three cases treated with intravenous gammaglobulin]	The superantigens cause a massive polyclonal activation of T-cells, producing an immense liberation of proinflamatory cytokines, which induces the clinical data of toxic shock syndrome. In international studies the administration of polyclonal intravenous gammaglobulin has been observed to diminish the mortality 50 to 20%. But at the present it has not been reported in Mexico the clinical effectiveness of this therapeutic modality in toxic shock syndrome. We report three cases of toxic shock syndrome treated with gammaglobulin intravenous, and we describe their favorable clinical evolution.
Change in gene expression of inflammation-related genes induced in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome induced by infection of injuries in rat]	To study the changes in inflammation-related gene expression in liver tissue during the course of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) induced by infection of injuries and its implication.
Montgomery T-tube: anesthetic management.	The Montgomery T-tube is a device used as a combined tracheal stent and airway after laryngotracheoplasty. It is a valuable option in the management of upper and mid-tracheal lesions. Because its use is sporadic, many anesthesiologists may not be familiar with this device, and its anesthetic management may pose a challenge. Safe management of such patients requires careful planning. We describe different techniques of anaesthetic management in two cases of injuries to the throat, for which this tube was inserted as a tracheal stent.
Understanding the role of proteases and pH in wound healing.	Recent research into chronic and non-healing wounds has helped increase our knowledge and understanding of the destructive processes that occur in wounds. Advanced dressings, such as protease-modulating dressings, have been developed to reduce the effects of these processes and re-establish a molecular balance in the wound bed. To use these dressings accurately, nurses need to understand the events that occur at a molecular level in the wound bed and the phases of wound healing so that they can act appropriately if a wound becomes 'stuck' in one of these phases.
Primary cutane manifestation of a precursor-B-lymphoblastic lymphoma in the external ear]	A Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) represents nearly three percent of all malignant tumors. Thirty to fourty percent of the lymphomas are located extra-nodal. Within the head and neck region they might occur in the tonsils, tongue base or the sinuses, the larynx and the pharynx. A cutaneous manifestation is rare. We report on an extranodal B-cell-lymphoma of the ear in a young woman. She reported on a piercing of the pinna months before with a subsequent infection. This infection led to the development of a massive ear tumor. Histologic examination resulted in the final diagnosis. In spite of the considerable extent of the lymphoma there was no systemic manifestation and a total remission was induced by chemotherapy before adjuvant radiation.
Clinical experiences of using a silver hydroalginate dressing in Austria, Switzerland and Germany.	This retrospective study, which involved patients with a range of colonised or infected wounds from 12 central European wound-care centres, found that this dressing combated infection, reduced pain and promoted healing.
The specialized treatment of the wounded with complications and unfavorable sequelae of gunshot wounds to the extremities]	The article gathers the management experience of 367 cases of complications in gunshot injuries of extremities, including 165 patients with amputation stumps of extremities and 202 patients with complicated gunshot fractures. The analysed group was consisted of the patients with stump diseases, irregular knitting or ununited fractures, defects of bone tissue or heavy purulent complications. Using the modern methods of diagnostic and treatment the authors succeeded in 30.9% of cases: in 59.9% satisfactory results were obtained. Unsatisfactory results were marked at 9.2% of patients.
Infectious complications and soft tissue injury contribute to late amputation after severe lower extremity trauma.	Although most combat-related amputations occur early for unsalvageable injuries, >15% occur late after reconstructive attempts. Predicting which patients will abandon limb salvage in favor of definitive amputation has not been explored. The purpose of this study was to identify factors contributing to late amputation for type III open tibia fractures sustained in combat.
Gram negative wound infection in hospitalised adult burn patients--systematic review and metanalysis-.	Gram negative infection is a major determinant of morbidity and survival. Traditional teaching suggests that burn wound infections in different centres are caused by differing sets of causative organisms. This study established whether Gram-negative burn wound isolates associated to clinical wound infection differ between burn centres.
Treatment of non-lactation suppurative mastitis]	The author analyses the case records of 238 patients who were treated at the clinic for nonpuerperal mastitis during a period of 10 years. Concomitant diseases were encountered in 31.7% and trauma of the breast in 14.1% of patients. Staphylococcus was the main causative agent (in 85%) of nonpuerperal mastitis. Surgical operation was the method of choice in the treatment of this form of mastitis; it was undertaken in 237 of the 238 patients. Emphasis is placed on the necessity of making sparing incisions which ensure good immediate results and the best cosmetic effect.
Warfarin-induced skin necrosis: an entity occasionally requiring burn wound expertise.	We describe a severe case of warfarin-induced skin necrosis with extensive full-thickness tissue loss involving approximately 12 per cent of the body surface area. The early management was conservative, with wound observation only, and no aggressive débridement was attempted. Wound and associated systemic sepsis followed, and the patient was transferred to our burn unit. The wounds were then managed with aggressive therapy including surgical excision, temporary coverage with allograft, and final closure with split-thickness autograft. This case illustrates important principles of appropriate surgical management of extensive skin lesions of this type.
Use of antibiotics in the management of postirradiation wound infection and sepsis.	Ionizing gamma irradiation depresses the host defenses and enhances the susceptibility of the immunocompromised host to local and systemic infection due to endogenous or exogenous microorganisms. Trauma and wounding act synergistically and decrease the survival after exposure to irradiation. The current antimicrobial agents suitable for controlling serious infections and their use in post irradiation local and systemic infection with and without trauma are discussed. The experience gained in managing immunocompromised patients following chemotherapy is reviewed. Empiric single agent or combination agent therapy should be directed at the eradication of potential gram-negative as well as gram-positive pathogens. The most important organisms known to cause these infections are Pseudomonas sp. and Enterobacteriaceae. Management of intra-abdominal infections following trauma should include early surgical correlation and antimicrobials directed against the Bacteroides fragilis group and Enterobacteriaceae. Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes cause most skin and soft tissue infections following trauma. Chemoprophylaxis of enteric sources of systemic infection can be achieved by antimicrobials that selectively inhibit the Enterobacteriaceae sp. and preserve the anaerobic flora. The management of infection in the injured and irradiated host includes supportive and restorative therapy. Supportive therapy includes débridement and cleansing of wounds, fluids, immunoglobulin, and antimicrobials. Restorative therapy includes definite surgery repair and replenishment of the immune system by use of immunomodulators, growth factors, and bone marrow transplantation. Further studies are needed to examine the usefulness of presently available drugs and experimental agents in the irradiated and traumatized host.
Prevention and treatment of pneumonia in infectious complications of trauma]	Based on the examination and treatment of 79 patients with traumas the authors consider ventilation exercises to be necessary for prevention of pneumonia.
Comparative study of bacteriological contamination between primary and secondary exploration of missile head wounds.	Aerobic and anaerobic bacterial contamination of scalp wounds, indriven bone fragments, and brain tracks were studied in two groups (A and B) of nonrandomized patients with missile head wounds in a 20-month study of patients from the front lines of the Iran-Iraq war. In the 53 Group B patients, the primary debridements, most of which had been performed within 24 hours after injury, were deemed insufficient and a secondary definitive exploration was performed. Group A patients (62) had primary definitive explorations at Nemazee Hospital after a mean of 66.5 hours since injury. All of the patients had been started on dexamethasone and a combination of either ampicillin and chloramphenicol or crystalline penicillin G and chloramphenicol after field evacuation. The contamination rate of scalp wounds, bone fragments and brain tracks was slightly higher in Group A (38.4%, 22.2%, and 29.6% respectively, for Group A and 31.9%, 19.5%, and 27% for Group B, respectively). Staphylococcus albus among the gram-positive and Acinetobacter among gram-negative bacteria were the most common infecting organisms. Fifty per cent of the bacteria cultured from the brain tracks of Group A and 30.8% of those cultured from Group B patients were gram-negative. A total of 125 patients in four groups was included in our overall study of victims of missile wounds that violated the dura mater. Four patients developed meningitis at Nemazee Hospital (3 postoperatively and 1 after facial penetration). Two patients in Group B were admitted with meningitis (1 with an accompanying abscess), 1 of them 20 days and the other 60 days after exploration at two different centers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Artificial embolization before septic amputation]	By artificial embolization before extensive septic amputation arrosion bleedings that are otherwise noncontrollable can be prevented. Resorbable gelatine (Gelforam) is suitable for embolization. For safety one can leave a balloon catheter above the embolized vessel segment for several days.
Open pelvic fracture: a lethal injury.	Twenty-two of 604 patients (4%) with pelvic fracture (PF) had open fractures. Eight per cent of all pedestrian and motorcycle accidents resulted in open PF, compared to 0.8% of all vehicular accidents. With one exception, all patients sustained multiple injuries. The mortality rate for an open PF was 50%, in marked contrast to 10.5% for a closed PF. Of more importance, the pelvic fracture was the primary cause of death in 73% of those dying with an open PF and in 30% of those dying with a closed PF. The higher mortality is due to an increased risk of infection and to massive hemorrhage because of a high risk of concomitant major vessel injury, as well as increased diffuse retroperitoneal hemorrhage, in these open fractures. Therapy directed to restoring blood volume, identifying and repairing major vessel injury, and attempting to decrease the diffuse retroperitoneal hemorrhage is essential. If drainage is necessary, it should be accomplished with a closed system. Immediate colostomy and use of antibiotics should decrease the infectious complications.
A prospective analysis of hospital-acquired fever in obstetric and gynecologic patients.	Of 2,725 obstetric and 4,090 gynecologic patients admitted to a community hospital during a 12-month period, 131 obstetric patients (4.8%) and 294 gynecologic patients (7.2%) had temperature elevations (rectal) of 38.3 degrees C or higher. All patients with fever were seen and followed up until discharge, and 80 different parameters were recorded for each patient, including sex, age, underlying illness, operative or diagnostic procedures, height and duration of fever, laboratory data, medications received, and ultimate cause of fever. Sixty-three obstetric patients (48%) with temperature elevations were found to have infections and fever, with skin and soft-tissue infections (59%), urinary tract infections (16%), and bacteremias (10%) being most common. Sixty-eight febrile obstetric patients (52%) were not found to have an infection. Eighty-six gynecologic patients (29%) with fever had an infection. Pelvic inflammatory disease (37%), urinary tract infection (18%), and abscess (14%) were the most common infections. Two hundred eight gynecologic patients (71%) had fever, but the exact cause of the fever in these patients remains obscure. While fever can be an early indicator of infection, it may be due to noninfectious causes in almost two thirds of hospitalized obstetric-gynecologic patients.
Disease caused by a marine Vibrio. Clinical characteristics and epidemiology.	We studied the clinical characteristics and epidemiology of disease associated with a rare, unnamed halophilic lactose-fermenting Vibrio species in 39 persons from whom the organism had been isolated. Two distinct clinical presentations were seen. In the first, the illness began with septicemia, often within 24 hours after raw oysters had been eaten; 18 of 24 such patients had pre-existing hepatic disease, and 11 of the 24 died. In the second, there was a wound infection after exposure to seawater or an injury incurred during the handling of crabs; none of these persons had pre-existing hepatic disease, and one of 15 died. Most cases (85 per cent) occurred during relatively warm months (May to October) in men (90 per cent) 40 or more years of age (95 per cent). This Vibrio species is a pathogen and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of septicemia with secondary skin lesions and of wound infections after exposure to seawater.
Infected puncture wounds in adults with diabetes: risk factors for osteomyelitis.	The purpose of this study was to investigate factors that contribute to the development of osteomyelitis of the foot after a puncture wound in patients with diabetes. Forty-five male and 21 female adults with diabetes that were admitted to the hospital for a foot infection precipitated by a puncture were included in the study. Twenty-two (33%) patients had osteomyelitis (O) based on either a positive bone culture or pathology report. Forty-four patients had soft tissue infections (ST). Age and duration of diabetes were similar in both groups. Patients with osteomyelitis received medical treatment later than patients with soft tissue infections. A significant difference was identified when comparing the time interval from the time of the injury until patients were hospitalized and until they had the puncture wound surgically debrided, and when comparing the interval from when patients first received initial professional medical evaluation until they were hospitalized and until they had the puncture wound surgically debrided. Patients with punctures involving the forefoot (FF) and patients that wore shoes (S) at the time of the injury were more likely to develop osteomyelitis than patients that had rearfoot (RF) injuries O: FF = 20, 90%, RF = 2, 10%, ST: FF = 30, 70%, RF = 13, 30%, p < 0.05) and patients that were barefoot (B) at the time of injury (O: S = 15, 88%, B = 2, 12%, ST: S = 21, 57%, B = 16, 43%, p < 0.05). Osteomyelitis is a common complication in patients with diabetes with a foot infection following a puncture wound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Endocarditis due to Staphylococcus lugdunensis: report of 11 cases and review.	Staphylococcus lugdunensis is a recently described coagulase-negative staphylococcus that has been associated with human infections, including nine reported cases of infective endocarditis. The present study describes 11 other cases of infective endocarditis caused by this organism. The infection occurred in patients whose mean age was 61 years and was community-acquired in most cases. A preexisting cardiac abnormality was present in eight patients. Three of the 11 infections involved prosthetic valves. Ten strains were susceptible to penicillin. The destructive course of the infection, the need for valve replacement, and the high mortality suggest that S. lugdunensis causes a virulent form of endocarditis.
