Effect of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol ester and incisional wounding on neuropsin mRNA and its protein expression in murine skin.	The expression of neuropsin mRNA in vivo in mouse skin was examined by in situ hybridization and Northern blotting under stimulated conditions. Two kinds of epidermal stimuli, a topical application of a chemical tumor promoter and incisional wounding, were used. A single topical application of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol 13-acetate induced epidermal hyperplasia and simultaneously induced an extensive increase in neuropsin mRNA in the suprabasal cells. A full-thickness skin incision also induced a profound increase in neuropsin mRNA in the suprabasal cells surrounding the wound but not in actively proliferating basal cells. The increases in neuropsin mRNA occurred rather late and were limited to the site of drug application or around the incision. Interestingly, neuropsin mRNA was not expressed in the epithelial tongue migrating toward the wound during re-epithelialization. Thus, neuropsin might participate in accelerated epidermal differentiation rather than in the proliferation or migration of keratinocytes in the wound.
Wheat germ agglutinin and concanavalin A binding during epithelial wound healing in the cornea.	It has been hypothesized that there are differences between membrane-associated glycoconjugates of wounded (migrating) epithelium and those of nonwounded (stationary) epithelium. To test this hypothesis, wheat germ agglutinin-ferritin (WGA-Fe) and concanaval in A-ferritin (Con A-Fe) binding to apical membranes of wounded and nonwounded rabbit corneal epithelia were compared. Epithelial abrasions of the superior half of the cornea were allowed to heal in vivo for six hours. Fixed corneas were then incubated with lectin-ferritin and prepared for electron microscopy. Measurements (ferritin particles per linear um of membrane) of WGA-Fe indicated that binding to leading cells (40.7 particles/um), to areas 20 to 35 cells behind the leading edge (46.5 particles/um) and to nonwounded epithelium (45.1 particles/um) from contralateral eyes were not significantly different. A competitive inhibitor of WGA, 0.2M N-acetylglucosamine, however, blocked 94 percent of WGA binding on leading cells (2.3 particles/um), while binding persisted in areas behind the leading edge (39.5 particles/um) and on nonwounded epithelium (43.6 particles/um). This indicates that leading cell surfaces have a weak affinity for WGA. Unlike WGA, Con A showed a distinct preference for leading-edge cells (33.9 particles/um) compared to nonwounded epithelium (9 particles/um). In areas 20-35 cells behind the leading edge, Con A binding was intermediate to these two extremes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transfer of cefotetan into exudates from excoriated skin wounds]	Transfer of cefotetan (CTT) into exudates from excoriated skin wounds was studied in 9 adult patients. Each subject was given an intravenous bolus injection of 50 mg/kg of body weight. Concentrations of CTT in serum and in exudate fluid were determined by bioassay using Escherichia coli NIHJ as the test organism. The mean (+/- S.D.) CTT concentration in serum reached 274.3 +/- 78.3 micrograms/ml at 30 minutes after the injection and decreased to 30.0 +/- 12.0 micrograms/ml at 8 hours after the injection. The peak value of CTT in exudate fluid was 143.1 +/- 22.3 micrograms/ml at 1 hour. Eight hours after the injection, the mean concentration in the exudate was 25.7 +/- 21.1 micrograms/ml. The data obtained were analysed pharmacokinetically: CTT concentrations in serum were analysed by two-compartment model, and those in exudate fluid from excoriated skin wounds were analysed by the model in which skin was considered as a small part of the peripheral compartment. Thus T1/2(beta) of CTT levels in serum was calculated as 2.38 hours, AUC0----infinity was 1,000.2 micrograms X hr/ml and Vd was 164.5 ml/kg. Tmax and Cmax of CTT levels in exudates were calculated as 1.05 hours and 131.2 micrograms/ml, respectively.
Collagen metabolism following corneal laceration in rabbits.	We investigated the synthesis and degradation of collagen in lacerated rabbit corneas. The rate of collagen synthesis was measured by the incorporation and hydroxylation of [14C]proline up to 5 weeks after a penetrating laceration. Our results indicate that protein and collagen synthesis is initially reduced during the 24 h period after laceration and then increases in two phases. A moderate increase in protein and collagen synthesis occurs up to day 5 after laceration. Synthesis then decreases to a low level through the 10th day after injury. A second wave of increase in protein and collagen synthesis takes place reaching a new peak of approximately twice the activity as found in control corneas after 5 weeks of healing. Afterwards, the rate of protein and collagen synthesis declines and reaches the basal level after 7 weeks of healing. In a separate set of experiments, rabbit corneas were lacerated and allowed to heal for one or three weeks at which point 100 microCi of [14C]proline was injected into each anterior chamber. The corneas were excised 1 to 17 days later and subjected to collagen analysis. Our data indicates that the degradation of collagen synthesized by the cornea 1 week after laceration followed biphasic kinetics. In the first phase, the half-life of newly-synthesized collagen is 20 days, whereas it is approximately 4 days in the second phase. It is of particular interest that the accelerated degradation of the newly-synthesized [14C]collagen is concomitant with the increased rate of collagen synthesis during the wound healing process. The degradation of collagen synthesized 3 weeks after injury was slower and followed monophasic kinetics having a half-life of 14 days. The degradation of non-collagenous 14C-proteins follow a monophasic kinetics having a half-life of 6-7 days. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of newly-synthesized collagen indicated that the collagen(I) and collagen(V) were the main collagenous components synthesized by the lacerated corneas.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein expression but no glial demarcation follows the lesion in the molecular layer of cerebellum.	The present study investigates the reactive gliosis following a simple stab wound lesion to a brain area in which a characteristic astroglial architecture exists, i.e., the Bergmann-glia in the molecular layer of cerebellum. While in mammalian brain the Bergmann-glia contains glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), in the avian Bergmann-glia, the cytoskeletal protein is vimentin, which is characteristic for immature astroglia in mammals. The operations were performed on chickens and rats under deep anaesthesia, using a sterile disposable needle. After a 1-week survival period, the animals were overdosed with ether and perfused transcardially with 4% buffered paraformaldehyde. Free-floating sections cut with a vibration microtome were processed for immunohistochemistry against GFAP and vimentin. GFAP immunopositivity of Bergmann-glia appeared in chicken and increased in rat in the lesioned area but the lesion was not surrounded by typical astrocytes and no demarcation was formed in the molecular layer, in contrast to the usual appearance of reactive gliosis, which was observed in the granular layer and in the white matter in both species. Vimentin immunopositivity of the Bergmann-glia also increased around the lesion in both species. The results suggest that a highly developed glial architecture fails to re-arrange into a demarcating scar, which offers an interesting model system to study the importance of glial demarcation. The observations also support that the resident glia is the main component of the glial reaction, and prove the capability of avian Bergmann-glia to express GFAP.
Immunohistochemical detection of fibronectin in postmortem incised wounds of porcine skin.	Fibronectin plays an important role in tissue repair and wound healing. Previous literature reports indicated that fibronectin could be a marker of vitality for wounds with a survival time of more than a few minutes. In order to verify these findings were performed immunohistochemical investigations on the expression of fibronectin in incised wounds of porcine skin inflicted into various anatomical regions in the early postmortem interval (0-5 min after circulatory arrest). Tissue specimens were collected 12-14 h postmortem and investigated for fibronectin on paraffin sections (alkaline phosphatase and monoclonal anti-alkaline phosphatase procedure). A markedly positive expression of fibronectin (not only next to the wound margin and clearly stronger than in normal undamaged skin) could be demonstrated in eleven out of 36 samples. A moderately positive fibronectin reaction was detectable in seven further specimens. Muscular contraction bands were observed in nine out of 36 specimens. The various reaction patterns of fibronectin cannot be finally explained, but are probably due to a passive transudation of skin tissue by blood components from injured vessels. As a result of these investigations the specificity and validity of fibronectin as a parameter of vitality has to be questioned. Fibronectin immunohistochemistry again reveals that the validity of parameters as vital criteria decreases when their manifestation time is short; postmortem/supravital induction seems to be possible resembling vital reactions in these cases.
