A case study of the suicide of Luis Mendès France, in Bordeaux, in 1695.	After being condemned and imprisoned in Lisbon by the Portuguese Inquisition, Luis Mendes de Franca exiled himself in late 1683 to France, where his descendants adopted the family name Mendes France. In 1695, at the age of 55 years, Luis Mendes committed suicide in Bordeaux by a pistol shot that decapitated him. The inquest conducted at that time concluded that Luis Mendes was insane and thus not guilty of the crime of suicide. We hypothesize that he used a flint stone-type pistol loaded with an extraordinarily large quantity of black gunpowder. Using available information on historic firearms, ammunition, and powder, coupled with the preserved testimony of historic figures, we propose a reconstruction of this drama and a diagnostic approach to the psychiatric aspects of the suicide.
George Guthrie (1785-1856): surgeon to the Duke of Wellington, and a pioneer thoracic surgeon.	George Guthrie had a distinguished career as a soldier, surgeon and medical reformer. He revolutionized military surgery following his active service during the Peninsular War in Spain and Portugal. His book Commentaries on the Surgery of War was based on this experience and was updated continuously; it remained the standard military text for half a century. During this campaign, he also struggled to improve the poor administration of the Army Medical Service. He had little respect for established dogma and was a man of great humanity and integrity who based his opinion on personal statistical observation together with his own anatomical and postmortem studies. His influence on surgical thinking was enormous and he was three times the President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
Cranial surgery in XVIIth century Vienna: a case from Evliya Celebi's Book of Travel]	Book of Travel (Seyâhatnâme) of Evliya Celebi has always been an invaluable resource for history and ethnography researchers. And it is found out via our paper about "neurosurgical operation" that the above mentioned work can be studied for researches concerning the history of medicine. It is seen that Evliya Celebi reports a neurosurgical operation for curing a gunshot wound, and that he is very well aware of medical paradigm of his era. And he reports the situation without departing from the work and the dominant literary language of the work and without passing over the technical details, and he also does not get lost in the details. He also reports all the general stages of the operation by giving all the techniques and methods of his era. This work can also be considered as an evidence for the origins of western medicine and surgery in the east. Because it is observed that eastern scientists such as Ibn Sina and Zehravi have been referenced for the situation the surgeon took care of, the methods the surgeon used and the stages during the operation.
Eduard Hitzig's experiences in the Franco-Prussian War (1870-1871): the case of Joseph Masseau.	It is well known that Fritsch and Hitzig published the results of their experiments on cortical stimulation in 1870, the year in which the Franco-Prussian War (FPW) broke out. Several tall stories are found about Hitzig's role in the FPW; stories that have not been well documented. During this war, he worked at the military hospital in Nancy, where he was allowed to admit to his ward soldiers with head wounds. He made a close observation of the 20-year-old French soldier Joseph Masseau, who suffered from a right-sided cerebral abscess following a gunshot wound sustained during the Loire campaign on December 10, 1870 and was looked after in the military hospital of Nancy in January and February 1871. Hitzig related the clinical and autopsy observations to his recent experimental findings. A translation into English of part of the case report is provided.
The assassination of John F. Kennedy: revisiting the medical data.	Doubt continues to surround the assassination of President Kennedy to this day. Unfortunately, the controversy was not diminished by the multiple commissions and panels that were convened to investigate it. This was in large part because these various panels continued to propagate much of the confusion and lack of precision that plagued the initial medical reports, and introduced some new confusion of their own. Much of this controversy was driven by incomplete information, poor documentation and analysis, and the puzzling decision to withhold key medical evidence both from investigators and the public. However, the preponderance of evidence does show that the single-shooter, three-bullet theory is plausible both medically and scientifically.
Bullet injuries of the brain.	Experience gained with a wide variety of missile injuries of the brain is presented. Clinical signs and intracranial pressure (ICP) studied in the early post-injury period have been correlated with survival and treatment. Stress is laid on fluid requirements and the importance of controlled ventilation in the management of the labile clinical condition of such patients. Coughing and struggling caused extrusion of blood and brain from the wound, and this was reduced considerably with endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. Post-operatively high ICP could be controlled in potential survivors with continued ventilation.
Inflammation: John Hunter's "A treatise on the blood, inflammation and gun-shot wounds".	John Hunter's A Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation and Gunshot Wounds was published in 1794. Throughout the nineteenth century this was considered the most important study of inflammation and has been widely quoted since. After a section on the nature of blood and the circulatory system, in which he describes the vascular supply in detail, he passes on to an extensive survey of inflammation. This is based mainly on his wide clinical experience, including that as a military surgeon. He, however, supplements this with a number of experiments, some of which are classic. He bases his observations on the four cardinal signs of Celsus (redness, heat, swelling and pain). Inflammation is then divided into three main groups: adhesive, suppurative and ulcerative. He discusses the nature of pus and the formation and treatment of abscesses. He describes his experiments on the transplantation of tissues under the general heading of adhesive inflammation. This, he states, underlies the union of wounds and thus the union of tissues after transplantation. Although unaware of the role of infecting organisms as a cause of inflammation, he makes observations on inflammation in smallpox, venereal infections and tuberculosis. He relates these to his observations on inflammatory aspects of wound healing. Lister was particularly influenced by Hunter's observations in the development of antisepsis. As well as the local effect of inflammation, Hunter was concerned with the constitutional effects such as fever.
Terminal ballistics. 3]	This brief chapter, focusing essentially on a single topic, has been written in homage to Emile Theodor Kocker, a masterful exponent of the art of surgery and founder of the culture of terminal ballistics. For most of the literature we are indebted to Fackler and Dougherty, who, with the particular grasp, and fair of historians, act as guides on a trial which is only apparently retrograde, but which actually bears eloquent witness to the fact that even in the most physically tangible of arts, namely the art of surgery, inspired curiosity may help us to go well beyond the limits of our day and age. This chapter is also dedicated to the memory of another great surgeon, Vittorio Pettinari, who for one of the authors was an incomparable mentor and past-master of such curiosity.
Experimental duplication of the important physical evidence of the lapel bulge of the jacket worn by Governor Connally when bullet 399 went through him.	By duplicating the wound to the neck of President Kennedy, which caused bullet 399 to turn sideways, and having it then hit a Connally-type rib cage with shirt and jacket, we reproduced the right-sided bulge of the jacket worn by Connally, with lapel eversion, which is so significant in frame 224. The extensive damage to his shirtfront was from the hail of rib fragments and soft tissue, exactly as described with his own shirt. Our tumbling bullet then went on to fracture a radius and be recovered intact except that it was somewhat flattened and bent and had lead extruded from the rear, as did bullet 399. Fragments of this lead were scraped off on the ragged bone-ends of some of our fractured radiuses, just as with Governor Connally's radius. It is believed that this duplication of the jacket and lapel bulge of Governor Connally, which occurred dependably, when we reproduced the circumstances at Dallas, confirmed this very important detail in this technical demonstration of the findings in the shooting of President Kennedy and Governor Connally. The bulge and the lapel eversion of the jacket worn by Governor Connally, starting in Zapruder frame 224, does indeed establish, beyond any shadow of a doubt, the exact moment when bullet 399 went through him. The right arms of both men were seen to react simultaneously, immediately thereafter. It also permits us to establish that there was plenty of time (three and one-half seconds) between the first two shots (frames 160 to 224) and even more time (five seconds) between the last two shots (frames 224 to 313), for Oswald to reload, reacquire his target (the head of President Kennedy) plus two full seconds to lock onto it. If the bullet does not traverse the neck of President Kennedy, it does not cause Governor Connally's jacket and lapel to bulge. The lapel bulge is a very important bit of actual physical evidence in establishing the fact that one bullet hit both men and that Oswald had plenty of time to hit the President, first in the neck and then in the head. These experiments confirm the mechanism of the lapel bulge and the behavior of the bullet.
The forensic medical assessment of the bone damages to skeletons from a group burial in the environs of Yekaterinburg]	Results of comprehensive expert evaluation of bone remains found at the place of burial made 80 years ago are presented. Injuries inflicted by gunshots, mechanical, chemical, and other factors are classified. Diagnostic criteria for reconstruction of circumstances of death and burial of the Romanov family and subjects in their attendance are defined.
The death of King Charles XII--the forensic verdict.	King Charles XII of Sweden was killed in 1718 during his siege of the Danish fortress of Fredriksten. For 276 years, it remained an open question whether the lethal bullet came from the enemy or from a Swedish assassin. Now, a treatise published by a Swedish historian finally proves that the King's death was a case of political murder. Ballistic circumstances and the Danish ammunition then available are incompatible with a random shot from enemy quarters. Major-general Carl Cronstedt possessed the expertise needed to make an assassination look like a war casualty. It appears that the King was shot with a makeshift jacketed bullet long before jacketed bullets came into common use.
