Continuous PC6 wristband acupressure for relief of nausea and vomiting associated with acute myocardial infarction: a partially randomised, placebo-controlled trial.	To assess the effectiveness of continuous PC6 acupressure as an adjunct to antiemetic drug therapy in the prevention and control of nausea and vomiting in the first 24h after myocardial infarction (MI).
Manipulation of the wrist for management of lateral epicondylitis: a randomized pilot study.	Lateral epicondylitis ("tennis elbow") is a common entity. Several nonoperative interventions, with varying success rates, have been described. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of 2 protocols for the management of lateral epicondylitis: (1) manipulation of the wrist and (2) ultrasound, friction massage, and muscle stretching and strengthening exercises.
Primary care referral protocol for wrist ganglia.	The paper summarises current knowledge on ganglia of the wrist including the views of patients and doctors. The efficacy of available treatment options are discussed. Summary points are derived from the available knowledge with a referral protocol from primary care.
Carpal tunnel syndrome secondary to intratendinous infiltration by tophaceous gout.	Carpal tunnel syndrome caused by gout is rare. We describe a case of entrapment of the median nerve secondary to intratendinous infiltration by gouty tophi in a 54-year-old man. The tophus was excised from the profundus tendon but the superficialis was too infiltrated and destroyed to be saved. The patient made an uneventful recovery with relief of his symptoms. This case illustrates the potential consequences this could have for hand function.
Ganglions of the wrist: proposals for topographical systematization and natural history]	We looked for the anatomic origin and mechanism of constitution of the so-called "ganglions" of the wrist.
Epithelioid sarcoma metastasis to the gingivae: a case report.	We present a rare case of oral metastatic epithelioid sarcoma rapidly growing over the mandibular gingivae; the primary lesion occurred on the wrist and was treated 18 months earlier by surgery and radiotherapy. The oral metastatic lesion was resected and controlled by chemotherapy. This case has been followed for 2 years with good control of the resected oral metastatic lesion. Histologically, round to oval-shaped tumour cells with abundant eosinophylic globular cytoplasm and eccentrically localized nuclei, lack of epithelial features by electron microscopic study, and the immunohistochemical and cytologic features of tumour cells led into the diagnosis of epithelioid sarcoma. To our knowledge, no reports have been published of its occurrence in the oral cavity
Full-thickness skin necrosis after arginine extravasation--a case report and review of literature.	The arginine test is highly useful in the evaluation of short-stature children and adolescents. Extravasation of arginine can cause full-thickness skin necrosis that requires serious surgical intervention with aesthetic and functional sequellea. The authors describe a case of distal forearm skin necrosis caused by arginine extravasation that was treated by wide debridement and a combination of groin flap and later with split-thickness skin graft. The authors emphasize the need for early and active management of arginine extravasation injuries.
Sleep disturbances in adolescents and young adults with autism and Asperger syndrome.	Sleep problems are commonly reported in children with autistic disorders. Most studies are based on sleep questionnaires and sleep diaries, but polysomnographic and actigraphic data have also been used. In this study we investigated sleep in older individuals (aged 15-25 years) with autism and Asperger syndrome, using sleep questionnaires, sleep diaries and actigraphy. Although the sleep questionnaires completed by parents and caretakers revealed only a moderate degree of sleep problems, greater sleep disturbance was recorded with actigraphy. Using the latter method, low sleep efficiency (below 85 percent) or long sleep latency (more than 30 minutes) were found in 80 percent of the individuals. There was no early morning awakening, contrary to some earlier reports. This study suggests that even though subjective complaints of sleep disturbances are less common in adolescents and young adults with autism, this may be due to an adaptation process rather than an actual reduction in sleep disturbances.
Diurnal actigraphy and stimulant efficacy in narcolepsy.	The aim of this study was to determine whether wrist actigraphy could be used to assess the daytime effects of stimulant medication in the treatment of narcolepsy. Nine subjects with narcolepsy/cataplexy (medicated and unmedicated) were compared with matched control subjects. Data were collected over 4 days in the subjects' home. It was found that the actigraph variable of Immobility (mean duration of periods of no activity) could be used successfully to differentiate medicated and unmedicated phases, correctly classifying 89% of cases. Narcolepsy subjects differed from controls on Immobility both when medicated and unmedicated. During the unmedicated phase the self-reported nap duration was longer and more naps (3.94 naps) were taken. However, the frequency of naps was still high when medicated (2.43 naps). During the unmedicated phase narcolepsy subjects reported more negative mood states (profile of mood states, POMS) than control subjects. However, with the exception of Vigor, scores on the individual mood factors were within the normal range. Total POMS scores were highly correlated with the actigraphic measure of Movement for both narcolepsy conditions as well as controls, with negative mood associated with less movement. It was concluded that the actigraphy variable of Immobility is sensitive enough to detect treatment effects. The relationship between mood and motor activity warrants further investigation in both clinical and non-clinical populations.
Delayed ulnar neuropathy at the wrist following open carpal tunnel release.	Open carpal tunnel release is a common and successful treatment of median neuropathy at the wrist (carpal tunnel syndrome). We report a case of delayed ulnar neuropathy at the wrist with onset 2 months after open carpal tunnel release. Clinical findings, electrophysiological studies, magnetic resonance imaging, and surgical exploration demonstrated ulnar nerve compression at Guyon's canal resulting from translocation of the carpal tunnel contents. To our knowledge, this is an unreported complication of open carpal tunnel release that merits wide appreciation.
Selective effect of repetitive hand movements on intracortical excitability.	Repetitive training of isolated movements induces local reorganization of the motor cortex. To investigate the effect of repetitive movements on intracortical inhibition and facilitation shortly after the movements, we performed paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation in 12 healthy subjects by using interstimulus intervals of 2 and 8 ms, respectively. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded simultaneously from the extensor carpi radialis (ECR) and the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle (FCU) following paired stimuli at rest or 1 s after repetitive (every 6 s) active or passive wrist extensions and compared with MEPs produced by single stimuli at rest. The active movements produced significantly larger MEPs in the ECR but not the FCU muscle. Passive movements had no effect. Intracortical facilitation increased significantly after movements in the ECR only. Intracortical inhibition, however, did not change significantly after repetitive movements in either muscle. These findings support the notion that intracortical inhibition and facilitation may be controlled independently. Further, these data suggest that shortly after repetitive movements the excitability of the primary motor cortex representing the agonist muscle is increased by interaction with intracortical facilitatory circuits rather than by inactivating inhibitory circuits.
Time course of stretch-induced isometric strength deficits.	Stretching in the warm-up has been shown to decrease several muscular performance variables, but the dose-response of this effect is unknown. This study documented the change in isometric grip strength over ten trials in a convenience sample of young adults randomly assigned to control (n=22) or repeated bouts of 10-s static stretches of the wrist flexors (n=35). There was a significant (P<0.05) difference in the change in mean normalized grip strength between the control and stretching groups that was not significantly different across gender. Grip strengths in the control group were consistent with a linear trend, while the grip strengths in the stretching group declined in a logarithmic fashion to 88.8% with 100 s of stretching. Statistically significant (P<0.05) differences in normalized grip strength between the two groups appeared after 40 s of stretching. Meaningful decreases in isometric grip strength following static stretching are likely to appear in young adults following 20-40 s of static stretching.
Comparison of mixed latency of ulnar and median nerve between wrist and elbow as diagnostic test of ulnar neuropathy in elbow]	Conventional electrodiagnosis of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow is based on abnormalities in motor conduction across the elbow. However, sensory symptoms are predominant, and an accurate determination of the length of the nerve in this segment is difficult to obtain.
Effect of elbow position on canine flexor digitorum profundus tendon tension.	Tendon injury in the finger remains a clinical challenge to hand surgeons. A canine model is commonly used to study biological effects of tendon injuries and their treatment. There is an important anatomical difference between human and canine anatomy that may be overlooked, however, namely that most of the flexor digitorum profundus (FDP) muscle in dogs takes its origin from the medial epicondyle of the humerus, whereas in humans this muscle arises purely from the forearm. Therefore, elbow position can affect the tension of this muscle in dogs, while having no effect in humans. The purpose of this study was to measure the effect of elbow position on tendon tension in the canine digit in vitro. Elbow position had a significant effect on tendon tension. Digit motion with the elbow fully flexed resulted in significantly higher tendon tension compared to digit motion with the elbow flexed 90 degrees or fully extended, regardless of digit or wrist position (p<0.05). The tension with the elbow flexed 90 degrees was also significantly higher than with the elbow fully extended (p<0.05). The maximum tendon tension with the elbow fully flexed was more than eight times larger than that of the fully extended elbow (p<0.05). We conclude that, in the canine model, elbow position is an important parameter that affects the passive tension applied to the flexor digitorum profundus, and, by implication, to any repair of that tendon. Dog flexor tendon rehabilitation protocols should therefore specify elbow position, in addition to wrist and digit position.
Malignant ectomesenchymoma in the wrist of a child: case report and review of the literature.	Malignant ectomesenchymomas, rare and potentially aggressive tumors, occur in children and exhibit mesenchymal and neuroectodermal components. This report describes the first patient diagnosed with a malignant ectomesenchymoma of the hand. The patient was a 17-month-old male who developed a hypothenar mass on his left hand that was surgically excised. Microscopic evaluation revealed ganglioneuroblastic, rhabdomyosarcomatous, and chondrosarcomatous elements. Following excisional biopsy he was treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, ifosfamide, and etoposide. After 3 courses of chemotherapy the patient had a wide reexcision with no residual tumor. The patient is 4 years from diagnosis, without evidence of disease.
Trapezius transfer in brachial plexus palsy. Correlation of the outcome with muscle power and operative technique.	Between March 1994 and June 2003, 80 patients with brachial plexus palsy underwent a trapezius transfer. There were 11 women and 69 men with a mean age of 31 years (18 to 69). Before operation a full evaluation of muscle function in the affected arm was carried out. A completely flail arm was found in 37 patients (46%). Some peripheral function in the elbow and hand was seen in 43 (54%). No patient had full active movement of the elbow in combination with adequate function of the hand. Patients were followed up for a mean of 2.4 years (0.8 to 8). We performed the operations according to Saha's technique, with a modification in the last 22 cases. We demonstrated a difference in the results according to the pre-operative status of the muscles and the operative technique. The transfer resulted in an increase of function in all patients and in 74 (95%) a decrease in multidirectional instability of the shoulder. The mean increase in active abduction was from 6 degrees (0 to 45) to 34 degrees (5 to 90) at the last review. The mean forward flexion increased from 12 degrees (0 to 85) to 30 degrees (5 to 90). Abduction (41 degrees) and especially forward flexion (43 degrees) were greater when some residual function of the pectoralis major remained (n = 32). The best results were achieved in those patients with most pre-operative power of the biceps, coracobrachialis and triceps muscles (n = 7), with a mean of 42 degrees of abduction and 56 degrees of forward flexion. Active abduction (28 degrees) and forward flexion (19 degrees) were much less in completely flail shoulders (n = 34). Comparison of the 19 patients with the Saha technique and the 15 with the modified procedure, all with complete paralysis, showed the latter operation to be superior in improving shoulder stability. In all cases a decrease in instability was achieved and inferior subluxation was abolished. The results after trapezius transfer depend on the pre-operative pattern of paralysis and the operative technique. Better results can be achieved in patients who have some function of the biceps, coracobrachialis, pectoralis major and triceps muscles compared with those who have a complete palsy. A simple modification of the operation ensures a decrease in joint instability and an increase in function.
Circadian activity rhythm in demented and non-demented nursing-home residents measured by telemetric actigraphy.	There is a need to develop unobtrusive methods for long-term monitoring of sleep/wake and circadian activity patterns in the elderly both in nursing homes and at home settings as sleep is important for health and well-being. The IST Vivago WristCare is an active social alarm system, which provides continuous telemetric monitoring of the user's activity. We examined how the activity signal measured by IST Vivago differed between demented and non-demented subjects living in a nursing home, and how it correlated with the subjective assessment of sleep quality and daytime alertness. The activity signal data together with subjective assessments of sleep quality and daytime vigilance were collected from 42 volunteers (aged 56-97 years; 23 demented and 19 non-demented) for at least 10 days. The demented subjects had lower daytime activity and higher nocturnal activity than the non-demented subjects. Correlations between the activity parameters and self-assessments were weak but statistically significant. We also found correlation between functional ability and diurnal activity. The results are in line with previous studies with demented and non-demented elderly subjects and suggest that the IST Vivago system provides a valid instrument for unobtrusive continuous long-term monitoring of the circadian rhythm and sleep/wake patterns in the elderly.
Wrist position in closed reduction of fractured carpal scaphoid. An experimental observation.	Experimental observation on the relation between the apposition of scaphoid fracture surfaces and wrist position showed that fracture reduction could be achieved when the wrist was placed in a position from 15 degrees radial deviation to 15 degrees ulnar deviation provided that the wrist assumed certain amount of extension. The principle was that the more the wrist was radially deviated, the more the extension was needed. Fracture displacement occurred regularly and could be classified into three types, which were related to different loading patterns on the distal scaphoid.
Scapholunate dissociation associated with crystal induced synovitis.	We report the development of scapholunate ligament rupture after episodes of gout in 2 patients and in association with chondrocalcinosis in another. One patient required surgical fusion for alleviation of pain. The diagnosis should be considered in patients with prolonged wrist pain refractory to conventional therapies for crystal induced arthritis.
A cetylated fatty acid topical cream with menthol reduces pain and improves functional performance in individuals with arthritis.	This investigation was an extension of a previous study conducted in our laboratory in which we showed that 1 month of treatment with a topical cream (Celadrin) consisting of cetylated fatty acids was effective for reducing pain and improving functional performance in individuals with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee (Kraemer et al., Journal of Rheumatology, 2004). We wanted to verify that the addition of menthol to the compound would produce a similar percentage of improvement in therapeutic effects. We used a single treatment group with a pre-post experimental design to examine % treatment changes. Individuals diagnosed with OA of the knee (N = 10; age, 66.4 +/- 11.5 years) and severe pain (e.g., OA, rheumatoid arthritis) of the elbow (N = 8; age, 59.1 +/- 18.2 years) and wrist (N = 10; age, 60.3 +/- 16.8 years) were tested for pain and functional performance before and after 1 week of treatment with a topical cream consisting of cetylated fatty acids and menthol applied twice per day. In individuals with knee OA, significant improvements in stair-climbing ability (about 12%), "up-and-go" performance (about 12%), balance and strength (about 16.5%), and range of motion (about 3.5%) were observed, as were reductions in pain. In individuals with severe pain of the elbow and wrist, significant improvements in dynamic (about 22 and 24.5%, respectively) and isometric (about 33 and 42%, respectively) local muscular endurance were observed, as was a reduction in pain. Neither group demonstrated significant changes in maximal grip strength or maximal force production. One week of treatment with a topical cream consisting of cetylated fatty acids and menthol was similarly effective for reducing pain and improving functional performance in individuals with arthritis of the knee, elbow, and wrist. The % changes were consistent with our prior work on the compound without menthol. Further work is needed to determine the impact of menthol in such a cream. Nevertheless, our data support the use of a topical cream consisting of cetylated fatty acids (with or without menthol) for enhancing the potential for exercise training in this population.
Quantitative method for comparison of skeletal muscle architectural properties.	A numerical method is presented which calculates the architectural difference index between two muscles. This index is based upon the parameters, identified using statistical discriminant analysis, which best characterize the various muscles. This index can be used to reduce multiple architectural properties into a single value and may be useful in selecting donor muscles which are required to perform a substitute function for another muscle which has been lost or injured.
Doppler sonography in assessing disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of spectral Doppler in the assessment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The study group consisted of 32 patients with RA followed up clinically and by ultrasound using the resistive index (RI) measurements in the patients' wrists as indicator of inflammation. Lower RI values were recorded at baseline compared with data derived at 1-y follow-up examination from patients in remission and normal controls (p < 0.001). Discrimination by spectral Doppler between patients in remission and those who had a relapse within six months after the examination was possible with an accuracy of 95.6%. Patients in remission who had a flare-up within six months after the examination had significantly lower (p < 0.01) RI values vs. patients who remained in stable remission. In conclusion, RI measurements may serve as an objective marker of disease activity and potentially as a predictor of the disease course in RA.
"Resetting" of postural tremors at the wrist with mechanical stretches in Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, and normal subjects mimicking tremor.	The response of postural wrist tremors to brief mechanical displacements was compared in two groups of patients, one with classical hereditary essential tremor (n = 18) and another with typical Parkinson's disease (n = 13). These groups were compared with an additional group of normal subjects mimicking wrist tremor (n = 9). The degree to which brief mechanical displacements of the wrist produced by torque pulses of three different sizes could modulate the timing of rhythmic electromyographic bursts in the forearm flexor muscles was quantified by deriving a resetting index, which could range between 0 (no phase resetting) and 1 (complete phase resetting). In all three groups of subjects studied, the resetting index varied significantly with the size of the mechanical perturbation and, in an inverse fashion, with the ongoing tremor amplitude. When due allowance for these factors was made, the difference in mean resetting indexes between the three groups of patients and subjects was reduced to the extent that no definitive statement could be made as to whether brief mechanical perturbations had more effect on essential tremor than parkinsonian tremor. The method is therefore unlikely to be useful in differentiating the common causes of postural wrist tremors.
Tophaceous pyrophosphate deposition with extensor tendon rupture.	Tophaceous deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystals is considered unusual as is deposition within tendon sheaths. Associated tendon rupture is described but is rare. We report a lady with tophaceous CPPD deposition at the wrist, a previously unreported site. Contrary to previous cases, this occurred in the setting of symptomatic, polyarticular, pyrophosphate arthropathy. An additional point of interest was development of associated extensor tendon rupture with features favouring a non-inflammatory mechanism of tendon damage.
Orthodromic sensory conduction along the ring finger in normal subjects and in patients with a carpal tunnel syndrome.	The purpose of the present study was to examine the value of measuring sensory conduction along the median and ulnar nerves of the fourth finger in the diagnosis of a carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). In 23 controls, sensory conductions along median and ulnar nerves were identical. In 28 of 38 patients with CTS, stimulation of the ring finger revealed a reduced conduction velocity along sensory median nerve fibres in contrast to normal conduction along ulnar sensory nerve fibres. In 5 patients, a sensory action potential was absent over the median nerve and in another 5 sensory conduction was normal along both nerves. We conclude that testing of sensory conduction along the ring finger is useful in about 74% of patients with CTS, while in the remaining 26% other fingers must be examined to establish the diagnosis.
Kinematics of the fingers and hands during computer keyboard use.	Although there has been extensive research about the kinematics of the neck, arm, and wrist during computer keyboarding, there is almost no information concerning the kinematics of the fingers, thumbs, and hands. The purpose of this descriptive study was to establish normative values of the kinematics of the fingers and hands during computer keyboard use.
Validation of the Samsung SBM-100A and Microlife BP 3BU1-5 wrist blood pressure measuring devices in adults according to the International Protocol.	A variety of automatic blood measurement devices with diverse features have been introduced to the medical markets recently. Among these devices, models that measure at the wrist have become increasingly popular in self measurements. The objective of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of the Samsung SBM-100A and Microlife BP 3BU1-5 wrist blood pressure devices against the mercury sphygmomanometer in adults according to the International Protocol criteria.
Arthroscopic treatment of dorsal wrist ganglia]	Incidentally discovered in 1987, arthroscopic treatment of dorsal wrist ganglia is based on our knowledge of their physiopathology which in turn benefits from the arthroscopic wrist evaluation. Dorsal wrist ganglia arise in the radiocarpal space from the dorsal part of the scapholunate ligament and migrate along the dorsal wrist capsule. According to their position above or under the dorsal intercarpal ligament, their cutaneous projection may vary. The basis of the arthroscopic treatment of wrist ganglia is, as with open surgery, the capsular resection in front of their origin. Arthroscopic resection is made either from dorsal radio-carpal or midcarpal approaches with little morbidity. Scars are unnoticeable, wrist mobility and strength close to normal by three months, which is the delay for dorsal wrist pain, always very limited, to disappear. The recurrence rate is however still debatable. Close to zero in some series, we had almost 20% recurrence rate in our series, with half of patients who reccur after two years follow-up. This variability in the recurrence rate also exists with open techniques. The only prospective and randomized study available to date found no differences between the two techniques, according to the recurrence rate.
Arthroscopic volar wrist ganglionectomy]	As an original technique developed by our department, the preliminary result of arthroscopic resection of volar wrist ganglion was first published in 2003. Since then, there were few reports in the literature concerning this new treatment method. The aim of the study is to evaluate the long-term outcome of this treatment technique. From August 1997 to April 2005, 21 volar wrist ganglia with average size of 2 cm (range 1-4 cm) were treated. The average age of patients was 48.6 (range 18-63). Thirteen ganglia had previous treatment including either aspiration or open excision. Seventy-one percent of the operations were performed under local anesthesia. Wrist arthrogram was performed in 9 cases. Seven cases showed origin from radiocarpal joint and all proceeded to arthroscopic resection successfully. Arthroscopically, 75% of ganglia arose from the interval between radioscaphocapitate and long radiolunate ligament, and 25% from the interval between long radiolunate and short radiolunate ligament. Sixteen of the 21 ganglia could be excised by arthroscopic technique. The average follow up was 56 months (range 9-101 months). There were 2 recurrences. One was treated with repeated arthroscopic excision and the other by open excision. There was no impairment of wrist motion and function in all patients. No neurovascular complication was encountered. Arthroscopic resection was an effective treatment method for well-selected volar wrist ganglion arising from the radiocarpal joint in long run.
The control of parameters within the therapeutic range in neuromuscular electrical stimulation.	The purpose of this article was to investigate the pattern of differences among three parameters according to the increased level of the muscle force obtained in response to neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES). Ten healthy subjects were enrolled in this study, which involved applying NMES to the wrist extensor of the nondominant side. The threshold intensity that induced target motion was determined at first and NMES was then applied while changing three parameters. The muscle force was measured by means of a dynamometer for each parameter. Thus, the increased pattern of the muscle force was compared for each parameter. Compared with the duration or the frequency, the increase of the muscle force that accompanied the increase of intensity was more prominent. When the duration was doubled, the increase of muscle force was more evident at threshold intensity than at high intensity (p < .01). When the intensity was doubled, the increase of muscle force was more prominent at 0.2 than at 0.4 milliseconds duration (p < .01). However, there was no such interaction between the increase of the frequency and either the duration or the intensity. The data suggest that stimulus intensity may be the most effective parameter that can be used to enhance the strengthening of the muscle.
A wrist-walker exhibiting no "Uner Tan Syndrome": a theory for possible mechanisms of human devolution toward the atavistic walking patterns.	After discovering two families with handicapped children exhibiting the "Uner Tan syndrome," the author discovered a man exhibiting only wrist-walking with no primitive mental abilities including language. According to his mother, he had an infectious disease with high fever as a three months old baby; as a result, the left leg had been paralyzed after a penicilline injection. This paralysis most probably resulted from a viral disease, possibly poliomyelitis. He is now (2006) 36 years old; the left leg is flaccid and atrophic, with no tendon reflexes; however, sensation is normal. The boy never stood up on his feet while maturing. The father forced him to walk upright using physical devices and making due exercises, but the child always rejected standing upright and walking in erect posture; he always preferred wrist-walking; he expresses that wrist-walking is much more comfortable for him than upright-walking. He is very strong now, making daily body building exercises, and walking quite fast using a "three legs," although he cannot stand upright. Mental status, including the language and conscious experience, is quite normal. There was no intra-familiar marriage as in the two families mentioned earlier, and there is no wrist-walking in his family and relatives. There were no cerebellar signs and symptoms upon neurological examination. The brain-MRI was normal; there was no atrophy in cerebellum and vermis. It was concluded that there may be sporadic wrist-walkers exhibiting no "Uner Tan Syndrome." The results suggest that the cerebellum has nothing to do with human wrist-walking, which may rather be an atavistic trait appearing from time to time in normal individuals, indicating a live model for human reverse evolution. It was concluded that pure quadrupeds may sporadically appear due to random fluctuations in genotypes and/or environmental factors (hormonal or nutritional); the human development following the human evolution may be stopped in the stage of transition from quadrupedality to bipedality. That is, the activity of the philogenetically youngest supraspinal centers for bipedal walking responsible for suppression of the older supraspinal centers for quadrupedal gait may be interrupted at the atavistic level due to genetic and/or environmental factors. Consequently, it is assumed that these individuals prefer their natural wrist-walking to move around more quickly and efficiently.
Measuring activity patterns using actigraphy in multiple sclerosis.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease resulting in impairments in motor and mental performance and restrictions in activities. Self-report instruments are commonly used to measure activity patterns; alternatively, actigraphs can be placed on several parts of the body. The aims of this study were to evaluate the superiority and specificity of actigraph placement (wrist vs. ankle) in subjects with MS and healthy controls and explore the relationship between self-report and objective activity patterns. A total of 19 subjects with definite MS and 10 healthy volunteers wore actigraphs on the non-dominant wrist and ankle for three days while they kept a log to register performed activities every .5 h. Wrist and ankle actigraphs produced similar activity patterns during the most active hours (09:00-20:30 h) (ANOVA, timexlocation interaction: F=.901, df=23, p=.597) in individuals with MS and healthy controls (between subjects factor F=3.275, p=.083). Wrist placement of the actigraphs was better tolerated than ankle placement. Wrist actigraph data corresponded to a higher degree with self-reported activities of the upper limbs in the early afternoon, whereas ankle data seem to reflect better whole body movements in the later afternoon/early evening. Overall, actigraph data correlated moderately with self-reported activity (r=.57 for ankle and r=.59 for wrist). The regression model revealed that self-reported activities explained 44% of the variance in ankle and 50% of wrist data. Wrist and ankle actigraphs produce similar activity patterns in subjects with MS and in healthy controls; however, the placement of actigraphs on the wrist is better tolerated. Ankle actigraphs reflect general movement but underestimate upper body activity. Subjective registration of activity level partly matches with objective actigraph measurement. A combination of both objective and subjective activity registration is recommended to evaluate the physical activity pattern of subjects with MS.
The importance of finger extension test in the diagnosis of occult wrist ganglion]	The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of diagnostic tools in comparison with surgical results of occult ganglion cyst of the wrist, which is one of the causes of chronic wrist pain.
Role of the wrist cuff in forearm plethysmography.	1. To determine whether a wrist cuff is necessary to measure the forearm blood flow correctly, we studied the effects of wrist cuff inflation to supra-venous and supra-systolic pressure values over a large range of forearm blood flow values: in the basal state, during post-occlusive hyperaemia of the hand, and during heating of the hand with warm air. Eleven healthy men participated, and the study was carried out at two different ambient temperatures of 20 and 25 degrees C. 2. In the basal state, the measured forearm blood flow was lowest with the wrist cuff at supra-systolic pressure. With the wrist cuff at supra-venous pressure the forearm blood flow was also lower than with an uninflated cuff, but only significantly so when the basal forearm blood flow was higher (at a room temperature of 25 degrees C). 3. During post-occlusive hyperaemia, inflating the wrist cuff to supra-systolic pressure produced the lowest forearm blood flow value at both room temperatures. In addition, with the wrist cuff at supra-venous pressure, forearm blood flow values were lower than with the uninflated cuff, but the supra-venous cuff pressure was clearly less efficient in excluding the hand blood flow than the supra-systolic cuff pressure. 4. During heating of the hand, both supra-systolic and supra-venous cuff pressures were effective in excluding the hand blood flow at both room temperatures. The forearm blood flow measured with the wrist cuff at supra-systolic pressure was lower than that measured with the wrist cuff at supra-venous pressure, but the difference was only significant at a room temperature of 20 degrees C. 5. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that a wrist cuff at supra-systolic pressure is most appropriate for the exclusion of the hand circulation in order to measure the forearm blood flow correctly.
Schwannomas of the upper extremity: diagnosis and treatment.	Schwannomas are the most common benign tumors developing in peripheral nerves. They account for 5% of all tumors in upper extremity. They usually present as a slow-growing mass, sometimes associated to pain and paresthesia. Preoperative evaluation is based on US and MRI, but final diagnosis requires histopathology. The aim of this study is to define clinical findings and MRI characteristics in identification, localization, and possible differential diagnosis of schwannomas.
The validity of wrist actimetry assessment of sleep with and without sleep apnea.	It is unclear whether actimetry can be reliably used to measure sleep in severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients. We compared polysomnography (PSG) with actimetric assessment of sleep on an epoch-by-epoch basis in subjects with and without OSA.
Wrist extensor orthoses: dexterity and grip strength across four styles.	Orthoses that are used to stabilize, protect, and support the wrist during functional activities often interfere with normal movement and, therefore, with hand function. This study compared the manual dexterity and grip strength of 20 female subjects while using a free hand and while wearing each of four wrist extensor orthoses: a Futuro prefabricated wrist brace (No. 33), a volar thumbhole orthosis, a volar orthosis with a radial connector bar, and a dorsal orthosis with distal transverse arch support. Of these orthoses, the Futuro prefabricated wrist brace afforded the best overall dexterity, although it was significantly slower (p less than .05) than the other orthoses in a writing subtest. Of the custom-made orthoses, the volar style with radial connector bar afforded the best overall dexterity. All of the orthoses significantly (p less than .01) reduced grip strength. The Futuro prefabricated wrist brace afforded the strongest grip strength of the four orthoses studied, and the volar thumbhole orthosis permitted the strongest grip among the custom-made orthotic styles.
Modulation of the stretch reflex during volitional sinusoidal tracking in Parkinson's disease.	Sinusoidal visually-guided wrist tracking, in normal and parkinsonian subjects, was perturbed by torque transients every 90 degrees throughout the movement. Long-latency stretch reflex and volitional EMG amplitude modulations were assessed as functions of the tracking phase. Reflex modulation during tracking, both in wrist flexor and extensor muscles, was found to differ significantly between parkinsonian and normal subjects. In the parkinsonian group, the abnormality consisted of an increased reflex activity during tracking phases in which the muscle was lengthening. At these phases the reflex generated torque is opposite in direction to the volitionally generated torque and the tracking movement. No differences in the unperturbed volitional EMG modulation were observed between groups for this error constrained tracking paradigm. Significant correlations were found between ratings of bradykinesia and the amount of abnormal reflex modulation in the wrist flexor. These data suggest that a component of bradykinesia results from a defective coordination of supraspinal reflex and volitional control systems.
Providing care for hand disorders: trauma and elective. The Derby Hand Unit experience (1989-1990)	Data was collected prospectively on all patients from one health district attending the Hand Unit at Derbyshire Royal Infirmary to determine the needs for hand surgery and the resources utilised to meet them. 475 patients per 100,000 population presented with hand injuries and 289 patients per 100,000 with elective hand disorders each year. For every 100,000 population, the trauma cases required 139 inpatient days and 1723 outpatient visits. Elective cases required 221 inpatient days and 1039 outpatient visits.
Nerve sheath ganglion of the superficial radial nerve.	Nerve sheath ganglia are infrequent and most commonly involve the peroneal nerve. We describe the previously unreported involvement of the superficial branch of the radial nerve.
A case of bipartite median nerve at the wrist.	We report a case of bipartite median nerve at the wrist associated with contracture of the flexor muscles in the forearm and anterior interosseous nerve palsy. The possibility of a bipartite median nerve must be borne in mind during operations on the distal forearm.
Treatment of acral persistent papular mucinosis with electrocoagulation.	Acral persistent papular mucinosis is a rare localized form of lichen myxedematosus with few case reports and no documented therapeutic options.
Wrist drop: an atypical presentation of renal cell carcinoma.	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) causing metastasis to the skeletal muscles is extremely rare. The authors describe a patient with history of RCC treated 5 years ago with radical nephrectomy who presented with left arm swelling after receiving seasonal flu shot. He was initially diagnosed with cellulitis, treated with intravenous antibiotics and discharged home. One month later, he presented with persistent left arm swelling accompanied by wrist drop. Subsequently he developed increased swelling, decreased pulse and wrist drop. He was diagnosed with compartment syndrome, for which fasciotomy was performed, and tissue samples were sent for analysis. Histopathological analysis confirmed metastatic clear cell RCC. The authors described a literature review of previously described cases of metastasis of renal cell cancer to the skeletal muscles. The authors also discussed the rarity of muscle metastasis and unpredictable behavior of RCC after being dormant for long periods.
Subject-specific musculoskeletal parameters of wrist flexors and extensors estimated by an EMG-driven musculoskeletal model.	An EMG-driven musculoskeletal model is implemented to estimate subject-specific musculoskeletal parameters such as the optimal physiological muscle length, the tendon slack length and the maximum isometric muscle force of flexor and extensor muscle groups crossing the wrist, as well as biomechanical indexes to quantify the muscle operating range, the stiffness of the musculotendon actuators, and the contribution of the muscle fibres to the joint moment. Twelve healthy subjects (11 males and 1 female, mean age 31.1±8.7 years) were instructed to perform isometric maximum voluntary contractions of wrist flexors and extensors. Recorded EMGs were used as input to the model and the root mean square error (RMSE) between measured and predicted torque was minimised to estimate the subject-specific musculotendon parameters. The model was validated and the RMSE and the normalised RMSE calculated during estimation and validation phases are compared. Estimated subject-specific musculoskeletal parameters vary in a physiological range, while the biomechanical indexes are in agreement with previously published data. The proposed methodology proved to be effective for the in vivo estimation of physiological parameters of the musculotendon complex and has potential as an investigative tool to distinguish aetiological differences among subjects affected by musculoskeletal disorders.
Detecting vital signs with wearable wireless sensors.	The emergence of wireless technologies and advancements in on-body sensor design can enable change in the conventional health-care system, replacing it with wearable health-care systems, centred on the individual. Wearable monitoring systems can provide continuous physiological data, as well as better information regarding the general health of individuals. Thus, such vital-sign monitoring systems will reduce health-care costs by disease prevention and enhance the quality of life with disease management. In this paper, recent progress in non-invasive monitoring technologies for chronic disease management is reviewed. In particular, devices and techniques for monitoring blood pressure, blood glucose levels, cardiac activity and respiratory activity are discussed; in addition, on-body propagation issues for multiple sensors are presented.
Real-time estimation of pathological tremor parameters from gyroscope data.	This paper presents a two stage algorithm for real-time estimation of instantaneous tremor parameters from gyroscope recordings. Gyroscopes possess the advantage of providing directly joint rotational speed, overcoming the limitations of traditional tremor recording based on accelerometers. The proposed algorithm first extracts tremor patterns from raw angular data, and afterwards estimates its instantaneous amplitude and frequency. Real-time separation of voluntary and tremorous motion relies on their different frequency contents, whereas tremor modelling is based on an adaptive LMS algorithm and a Kalman filter. Tremor parameters will be employed to drive a neuroprosthesis for tremor suppression based on biomechanical loading.
Synovial fistula as a complication of recurrent dorsal wrist ganglion excision: case report.	A wrist synovial fistula is rare. The author reports a patient who developed a synovial fistula following excision of a recurrent dorsal wrist ganglion.
Extended practice of reciprocal wrist and arm movements of varying difficulties.	An experiment was designed to determine the degree to which reciprocal aiming movements of the wrist and arm with various accuracy requirements (Fitts' tasks) are enhanced by extended practice. The vast majority of research on motor learning shows performance improvement over practice. However, literature examining the effect of practice on Fitts' task performance is limited and inconclusive. Participants were asked to flex/extend their limb/lever in the horizontal plane at the wrist (arm stabilized) or elbow joint (wrist stabilized) in an attempt to move back and forth between two targets as quickly and accurately as possible. The targets and current position of the limb were projected on the screen in front of the participant. Target width was manipulated with amplitude constant (16°) in order to create indexes of difficulty (ID) of 1.5, 3, 4.5, and 6. Contrary to the earlier reports, after 20 days of practice, we found minimal changes in movement time or the movement time-ID relationships for the arm and wrist over practice. However, the variability in the movement endpoints decreased over practice and wrist movements at ID=6 were characterized by shorter movement times and longer dwell times relative to arm movements with dwell time for the wrist increasing over practice. These data are consistent with the notion that Fitts' tasks provide a stable measure of perceptual-motor capabilities.
Conservative management of ulnar tunnel syndrome: secondary to excessive healing tissue; a rare complication after flexor tendon injury--a case report.	The ulnar tunnel syndrome occurs usually from ganglions, lipoma, cysts, chronic repetitive trauma, bicycling, and the activities that require either prolonged wrist hyper extension or continued pressure on the hypothenar eminence. The ulnar tunnel syndrome after flexor tendon repair is a rare complication. We report on a 24-year-old man with ulnar tunnel syndrome after a flexor tendon repair secondary to girder cut injury. The patient was managed conservatively for his hypertrophic scar for 9 weeks. After 9 weeks, the patient presented with no clawing and complete closure of the hand.
Linear rays of hypopigmentation following intra-articular corticosteroid injection for post-traumatic degenerative joint disease.	Intra-articular and intralesional glucocorticoid injections are commonly used by dermatologists, orthopedic surgeons, and rheumatologists because they offer many advantages over oral or parenteral dosage forms. Triamcinalone acetonide is a frequently utilized glucocorticosteroid for intra-articular injections, yet there are a limited number of case reports describing cutaneous hypopigmentation as an adverse effect. Here we present a unique case of hypopigmentation with a linear ray distribution demonstrating lymphatic collection and spread of the triamcinalone acetonide.
Defining the aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal syndrome: a prospective study.	To define the musculoskeletal syndrome associated with use of aromatase inhibitors (AIs), specifically, to describe its incidence, time to onset, risk factors, and clinical presentation.
In-situ imaging of articular cartilage of the first carpometacarpal joint using co-registered optical coherence tomography and computed tomography.	Conventional imaging modalities are unable to depict the early degeneration of articular cartilage in osteoarthritis, especially in small joints. Optical coherence tomography has previously been used successfully in high-resolution imaging of cartilage tissue. This pilot cadaver study demonstrates the use of intra-articular optical coherence tomography in imaging of articular cartilage of the first carpometacarpal joint, producing high resolution images of the articular surface in which cartilage thickness and surface characteristics were assessed. Findings on optical coherence tomography were confirmed with histology. Furthermore, co-registration of optical coherence tomography and computed tomography was used to accurately determine the scanned trajectory and reconstruct a true-scale image overlay.
Avascular necrosis of the proximal carpal row of the wrist. A possible complication of bisphosphonate administration.	Reports of coexisting osteonecrosis of more than one carpal bone are rare. We report an osteonecrosis of the entire proximal carpal row of the wrist, started briefly after intravenous bisphosphonate administration. The use of bisphosphonates for the treatment of osteoporosis is increasing. Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) is one of the known adverse effects during chronic treatment with bisphosphonates. This case is reported to make clinicians aware of a possible causative link between bisphosphonate use and osteonecrosis of other bones.
Combination of wearable multi-biosensor platform and resonance frequency training for stress management of the unemployed population.	Currently considerable research is being directed toward developing methodologies for controlling emotion or releasing stress. An applied branch of the basic field of psychophysiology, known as biofeedback, has been developed to fulfill clinical and non-clinical needs related to such control. Wearable medical devices have permitted unobtrusive monitoring of vital signs and emerging biofeedback services in a pervasive manner. With the global recession, unemployment has become one of the most serious social problems; therefore, the combination of biofeedback techniques with wearable technology for stress management of unemployed population is undoubtedly meaningful. This article describes a wearable biofeedback system based on combining integrated multi-biosensor platform with resonance frequency training (RFT) biofeedback strategy for stress management of unemployed population. Compared to commercial system, in situ experiments with multiple subjects indicated that our biofeedback system was discreet, easy to wear, and capable of offering ambulatory RFT biofeedback.Moreover, the comparative studies on the altered autonomic nervous system (ANS) modulation before and after three week RFT biofeedback training was performed in unemployed population with the aid of our wearable biofeedback system. The achieved results suggested that RFT biofeedback in combination with wearable technology was capable of significantly increasingoverall HRV, which indicated by decreasing sympathetic activities, increasing parasympathetic activities, and increasing ANS synchronization. After 3-week RFT-based respiration training, the ANS's regulating function and coping ability of unemployed population have doubled, and tended toward a dynamic balance.
Wrist clonus mimicking as action-induced tremors: an important clinical lesson.	We report a 35-year-old man who presented with abnormal movement of hand upon extension at wrist joint in an outstretched arm. He was diagnosed and treated elsewhere as having action-induced tremors. On examination, he had action-induced clonus at wrist joint with bilateral corticospinal tract features in the form of weakness, spasticity and extensor plantars. Evaluation also revealed cervical compressive myelopathy. The purpose of presenting this case report is to highlight this rare clinical sign which can be mistaken for action-induced tremors.
Pressure pain mapping of the wrist extensors after repeated eccentric exercise at high intensity.	The purpose of this study was to investigate adaptation mechanisms after 2 test rounds consisting of eccentric exercise using pressure pain imaging of the wrist extensors. Pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) were assessed over 12 points forming a 3 × 4 matrix over the dominant elbow in 12 participants. From the PPT assessments, pressure pain maps were computed. Delayed onset muscle soreness was induced in an initial test round of high-intensity eccentric exercise. The second test round performed 7 days later aimed at resulting in adaptation. The PPTs were assessed before, immediately after, and 24 hours after the 2 test rounds of eccentric exercise. For the first test round, the mean PPT was significantly lower 24 hours after exercise compared with before exercise (389.5 ± 64.1 vs. 500.5 ± 66.4 kPa, respectively; p = 0.02). For the second test round, the PPT was similar before and 24 hours after (447.7 ± 51.3 vs. 458.0 ± 73.1 kPa, respectively; p = 1.0). This study demonstrated adaptive effects of the wrist extensors monitored by pain imaging technique in healthy untrained humans. A lack of hyperalgesia, i.e., no decrease in PPT underlined adaptation after the second test round of eccentric exercise performed 7 days after the initial test round. The present findings showed for the first time that repeated eccentric exercise performed twice over 2 weeks protects the wrist extensor muscles from developing exacerbated pressure pain sensitivity. Thus, the addition of eccentric components to training regimens should be considered to induce protective adaptation.
Establishing and evaluating wrist cutpoints for the GENEActiv accelerometer in youth.	This study aimed to establish physical activity (PA) intensity cutpoints for a wrist-mounted GENEActiv accelerometer (ACC) in elementary school-age children. A second purpose was to apply cutpoints to a free-living sample and examine the duration of PA based on continuous 1-s epochs.
The rubber band syndrome: the forgotten rubber band in the wrist.	A linear constricting scar around the wrist in the presence of a discharging sinus raises clinical suspicion of a forgotten band around the wrist. A 3-year-old girl presented with an encircling scar, swelling and discharging sinus over the right wrist since last three months. There were no trophic ulcers and gross sensations were intact. Wrist radiographs showed the "constriction" sign in the radial epiphysis. MRI confirmed the diagnosis of encircling band inside wrist abutting the bone. A coloured rubber band was surgically extracted lying deep to restored and continuous tendons and neurovascular structures. Wound healing was uneventful. Examination at 14 months revealed residual ulnar nerve palsy. If aware, the clinical diagnosis is fairly accurate in rubber band syndrome. MRI aids in establishing diagnosis preoperatively. The reparative potential of a child's tissues is amazing. Although the lesion heals well after extraction of encircling band, the clinician should be wary of residual neurological changes. 
Measuring sleep: accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of wrist actigraphy compared to polysomnography.	We validated actigraphy for detecting sleep and wakefulness versus polysomnography (PSG).
Hyperstaticity for ergonomie design of a wrist exoskeleton.	Increasing the level of transparency in rehabilitation devices has been one of the main goals in robot-aided neurorehabilitation for the past two decades. This issue is particularly important to robotic structures that mimic the human counterpart's morphology and attach directly to the limb. Problems arise for complex joints such as the human wrist, which cannot be accurately matched with a traditional mechanical joint. In such cases, mechanical differences between human and robotic joint cause hyperstaticity (i.e. overconstraint) which, coupled with kinematic misalignments, leads to uncontrolled force/torque at the joint. This paper focuses on the prono-supination (PS) degree of freedom of the forearm. The overall force and torque in the wrist PS rotation is quantified by means of a wrist robot. A practical solution to avoid hyperstaticity and reduce the level of undesired force/torque in the wrist is presented, which is shown to reduce 75% of the force and 68% of the torque. 
Modulation of reflex and voluntary EMG activity in wrist flexors by stimulation of digital nerves in hemiplegic humans.	Changes in EMG activity in the wrist flexor muscles were studied in response to electrical stimulation of digital nerves and to sudden extension perturbations at the wrist produced by a torque motor in human subjects with unilateral cerebral hemisphere lesions. With the subjects maintaining a steady voluntary contraction against a constant load, digital nerve stimulation produced a series of excitatory and inhibitory changes in tonic EMG activity from the wrist flexors in both the normal and paretic arm. The most consistent response was a period of EMG inhibition beginning approximately 38 msec after the stimulus and lasting approximately 35 msec. With relatively weak electrical stimuli, there was less EMG inhibition in the paretic arm than in the normal arm; with stronger stimuli, the inhibitory response was similar in the two arms. The electrical stimuli and mechanical perturbations were then delivered together, with the interval between them adjusted so that the expected period of inhibition following electrical stimulation coincided with either the early (M1) or the long latency (M2) components of the stretch reflex. In the normal arm electrical stimulation produced more inhibition of the M2 component than of the M1 component. In the paretic arm, inhibition during the M2 component was less marked and similar in degree to that which occurred during M1. These results are compatible with the view that M1 and M2 are normally mediated by separate neural pathways. The long latency EMG activity evoked by muscle stretch in the paretic arm of hemiplegic patients may be generated by pathways or mechanisms different from those in the intact arm.
Magnesium intake, bone mineral density, and fractures: results from the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study.	Magnesium is a necessary component of bone, but its relation to osteoporotic fractures is unclear.
Personal UV exposure for different outdoor sports.	Exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a major environmental risk factor in the development of skin cancers and it occurs mainly during outdoor activities. The purpose of this study is to quantify the UV exposure suffered by amateur athletes (tennis players, hikers and runners) in their training schedules. The study on tennis player exposure took place at a tennis club in Valencia during the month of June 2011. With respect to the hiking group, the hikes studied took place in several mountainous areas of Spain and France from June to August 2011. Finally, the exposure suffered by ten runners while participating in a running circuit in the province of Valencia, from March to November 2011, was studied. The athletes were monitored using personal dosimeters (VioSpor), with the tennis players and runners wearing them on the wrist and the hikers on the shoulder. The median daily personal UV exposure for the hikers was 8.1 Standard Erythema Dose (SED) and for the tennis players 7.5 SED per day of training. The runners received a median of 14.6 SED while participating in the running circuit and about 2 SED per competition day. Median daily UV exposure of the hikers and tennis players exceeded 5 SED, which means that, in the case of non-sun-adapted skin type III and the non-use of sun protection, erythema may be induced in these subjects. However, the exposure suffered by the runners did not exceed the maximum personal exposure of 5 SED. Accordingly, it is necessary to encourage the use of high protection sunscreens and protective clothing and to avoid UV exposure in the hottest part of the day. 
Metastases to the hand and wrist: an analysis of 221 cases.	To identify demographic trends, survival rates, the most common metastatic locations, and the most common primary malignant tumors in the reports of hand and wrist metastases published over the past 27 years.
Silicone synovitis: clinical, radiologic, and histologic features.	We have described a patient in whom an erosive arthropathy of the right wrist developed three years after insertion of a silicone lunate prosthesis. The clinical picture of silicone synovitis is being recognized more frequently after bone and joint implants, but the diagnosis may be delayed because initial suspicions focus on infection or crystal-induced arthropathy rather than foreign body reaction.
Interpretation of cutaneous pressure threshold (Semmes-Weinstein monofilament measurement) following median nerve repair and sensory reeducation in the adult.	Semmes-Weinstein nylon monofilaments are used to evaluate recovery of cutaneous pressure threshold in adults recovering from median nerve repair at the wrist level. Of the 46 patients studied, 22 received a program of sensory reeducation. The nylon monofilament measurements accurately described the improvement in recovered sensation following nerve repair. There was a statistically significant better recovery (lower threshold) in patients receiving sensory reeducation, which was present in those less than 30 years old (P less than .003) as well as those greater than 30 years old (P less than .05). However, normal thresholds were not recovered in these patient populations.
Results of median nerve repair in children.	Seven children ranging in age from 1 to 13 years (mean 8 years) were evaluated at a range of 8 months to 15 years (mean 4.7 years) following group fascicular repair of the median nerve at the wrist following a sharp transection of the nerve. At the follow-up evaluation, they were measured with Semmes-Weinstein nylon monofilaments, moving and static two-point discrimination, and were judged for the presence or absence of paresthesias in their hands. The children did not receive sensory reeducation in the postoperative period. All children recovered to normal levels of moving and static two-point discrimination and were free from disabling paresthesias. These results are contrasted with a group of similar nerve injuries in adult patients treated in the same way and over the same period of time. It is concluded that the capacity for peripheral neural regeneration and cerebral plasticity in children is such that excellent recovery of functional sensation in the hand can occur without the need for sensory reeducation.
Fluctuations in motor unit recruitment threshold during slow isometric contractions of wrist extensor muscles in man.	Motor unit activity was recorded in the two extensor carpi radialis muscles with metal microelectrodes during isometric contractions. When tested at different 'free' increasing contraction velocities the recruitment thresholds (rt) systematically decreased, whereas when tested at different 'imposed' increasing velocities the rt exhibited great variability, with no observable overall tendency. Moreover, when measured at a given test velocity imposed periodically during MU investigation, rt also displayed great variability. These results suggest that the notion of rt tends to be oversimplified. The motoneurone pool excitability is highly dependent on both the experimental situation and the complexity of the motor task.
The dorsal occult ganglion of the wrist and ultrasonography.	In five cases of suspected occult ganglion on the back of the wrist, an ultrasonographic examination was performed. This revealed a small hypoechogenic area on the dorsal aspect between the scaphoid and the lunate or just dorsal to the lunate. Exploration of this area in three cases confirmed the presence of an occult ganglion. In the other two cases, further aspiration revealed traces of mucinous jelly at the tip of the needle.
Treatment of ganglia by a thread technique.	Seventy ganglia of the wrist have been treated by a new method whereby two sutures are passed through the ganglion, at right angles to each other, and each is tied in a loop. At intervals thereafter, the contents of the ganglion are expelled by massage. Only three recurrences occurred in 62 patients followed-up. This compares well with the results of surgical excision and avoids the complications of operation and anaesthetic.
The treatment of dorsal wrist ganglia by radical excision.	The dorsal wrist ganglion is the commonest benign soft-tissue tumour of the hand. Its treatment has been the subject of discussion for centuries, many methods being accompanied by an unacceptably high recurrence rate. Surgical extirpation gives the most reliable results and success has been said to depend on the identification of an unvarying deep attachment of the ganglion to the scapholunate ligament. A previous study has suggested that if this is excised, there will be no recurrences and no residual symptoms. Our experience of 62 dorsal ganglia confirms that although a scapholunate origin is usual, ganglia may also arise from a variety of additional sites over the dorsal wrist capsule, particularly in the region of the capitate. Two ganglia have recurred and clinical review of 52 (84%) of the cases has shown that persistent discomfort following excision is not uncommon. One patient appears to have developed scapholunate instability.
Repeater F waves: a comparison of sensitivity with sensory antidromic wrist-to-palm latency and distal motor latency in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome.	Thirty-five thousand six hundred supramaximal shocks were applied to 209 healthy and 147 entrapped median nerves (carpal tunnel syndrome--CTS) to characterize the backfiring behavior of the alpha motor neuron pool of abductor pollicis brevis in health and the modifying effect of a compressive neuropathy. A contraction of the normal subpopulation of active F-wave generators was found in CTS, while active neurons backfired at higher than normal frequencies (p less than 0.001). These modifications in spinal behavior are reflected in the % Repeater F-wave value, whose sensitivity in the detection of CTS approaches that of sensory wrist-to-palm latency estimation. This technique offers an alternative to latency measurement in the diagnosis of CTS. An economical strategy for the electrodiagnosis of CTS is proposed.
Extensor digitorum brevis manus. A case report.	A 45-year-old man presented with swelling on the dorsum of both hands, discomfort and pain, all of which became aggravated with activity. An anomalous muscle, the extensor digitorum brevis was found bilaterally. Division of the extensor retinaculum was performed in one hand, excision of the anomalous muscle in the other. One year after surgery, the patient was asymptomatic in both hands.
Wrist extensor recovery in traumatic quadriplegia.	Wrist extensor recovery is of major functional significance in many quadriplegic patients. In this retrospective study, we investigated a method for prognosticating wrist extensor recovery and the underlying mechanisms for improvement in strength. Thirty-five quadriplegic patients at the C4, C5, and C6 neurologic levels, admitted over a four-year period, were examined at one week, two months, and eight months postinjury for biceps and wrist extensor strength. Initial biceps strength was compared to final wrist extensor strength. All 16 C5 patients whose initial biceps strength was grade 3 showed wrist extensor improvement to grade 3; only three of 16 C4 patients showed the same improvement. We concluded that initial biceps strength is a reliable indicator of wrist extensor recovery, and most, if not all, C5 neurologic patients will gain one full motor level. This improvement may be due to compensatory factors, such as overwork hypertrophy and peripheral sprouting of nerves within the muscle, rather than to recovery of a root level.
Mycobacterium marinum infection of the hand and wrist. Results of conservative treatment in twenty-four cases.	Inadequate débridement, extensive scarring, and breakdown of the wound have been commonly encountered after surgical débridement has been employed as the initial treatment of infection with Mycobacterium marinum involving the deep structures of the hand. Because of our disappointment with the results of this form of treatment, from 1982 to 1986 we treated twenty-four patients who had such an infection with rifampicin and ethambutol after a diagnostic biopsy was done. Surgical treatment was deferred until it was determined that the infection had not been controlled by the chemotherapy. The clinical outcome for these patients could be divided into three patterns: eleven patients (Group I) had a good result with no complications, three patients (Group II) had delayed healing of the wound, and ten patients (Group III) did not have a good response to conservative treatment and required one or more surgical débridements. Complications were sometimes associated with use of the drugs, and loss of visual acuity was a concern in three patients. In twenty-one (87 per cent) of the patients, at follow-up the function of the treated hand was equal to that of the other hand. Persistent pain, a discharging sinus, and previous local injection of steroids were unfavorable prognostic factors. If these factors are present, surgical débridement is advised.
Increase of vibration threshold during wrist flexion in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome.	The most prominent symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) are sensory, with intermittent numbness, paraesthesiae and pain in the fingers innervated by the median nerve. No consistent signs are found by neurological examination, however. Conventional sensibility tests are positive in only about 50% of the cases. This applies also to quantitative tests such as measurement of the perception threshold for vibration (VT). In an attempt to find a more reliable indication and improve the diagnostic value of sensory testing, determination of VT was combined with provocation by means of wrist flexion. In a patient group with neurophysiologically verified CTS, all patients exhibited an increase to at least twice the VT value in the fingers innervated by the median nerve. No increase was seen in the little finger or in a control group of patients with digital paraesthesiae but with normal neurophysiological findings. It is concluded that VT measurements during wrist flexion can be used as a supplementary or alternative diagnostic criterion to indicate that the nerve dysfunction is located in the carpal tunnel.
Ultrastructure of a glomus tumour.	The ultrastructure of a glomus tumour is described, and the implications of the findings with regard to the histogenesis of this type of tumour are briefly discussed.
The effects of load and force on tremor at the normal human elbow joint.	1. Spontaneous flexion-extension tremor of the elbow was recorded in normal human subjects while they exerted a flexing force against different loads.2. Increases in the flexing force up to (1/2) or (3/4) of the subject's maximum were accompanied by increases in the amplitude of the tremor. A further increase to very large forces was associated with a decrease in tremor.3. When the subject flexed against a spring, the frequency of the tremor was related to the properties of the spring; with increasingly stiff springs the tremor frequency increased up to about 12 Hz. With the stiffest springs, however, the tremor became irregular and very small in amplitude.4. Weights added to the limb at the wrist reduced the frequency of tremor.5. By using appropriate combinations of spring and mass, the principal tremor frequency could be adjusted between 2 and 12 Hz, higher in some subjects. Within this range the frequency(2) was approximately proportional to the spring stiffness/mass, just as it is in a spring-mass system, though the forearm provided some of this mass, and some of the spring-like resistance was in the flexor muscles.6. When by suitable loading the tremor frequency was brought between 8 and 12 Hz, and the subject forcibly flexed his elbow, the tremor became regular and large in amplitude. This was a form of limited instability in the stretch reflex which arose because a powerful reflex response to extension of the elbow acted back on the flexor muscles after a delay.7. When the limb was so loaded that its natural frequency was outside this 8-12 Hz range, it behaved as a filter, and in response to any disturbing noise it oscillated mainly at frequencies close to the natural frequencies of either the mechanical system or the stretch reflex.8. This filtering function of the limb with its stretch reflex probably plays an important part in the control of normal movement and tremor.9. The large flexing forces that were here associated with vigorous tremor normally occur when a limb supports a large mass. Such a mass would give the mechanical system within the limb a low natural frequency; inconveniently large oscillations in the 8-12 Hz range would therefore seldom occur.
Tenosynovial fibroma.	Tenosynovial fibroma or angiofibroma of tendon sheath is a distinctive clinicopathological entity occurring mainly in young and middle-aged men and affecting dominantly the distal extremities. Fingers, hands and wrists are the site of 80 per cent of cases. Palmar aspects of hands and plantar aspects of foot are preferentially involved. The trunk and neck are seldom affected. They are generally small, firm, sometimes painful lesions attached to tendon sheath and/or tendon. The lesion must be distinguished from a variety of benign lesions including nodular fasciitis, angiomyoma and giant-cell tumour of tendon sheath. It can also be confused with sarcoma, including synovial sarcoma, because of the presence in it of characteristic slit-like spaces which have been identified as vascular rather than synovial spaces by virtue of the Factor VIII content of their lining cells.
Dermoid of the cornea in association with congenital generalized fibromatosis. A case report.	A case of congenital generalized fibromatosis with a dermoid tumour of the right cornea, fibromatosis of the back of the left foot, a furrow of the left wrist and malformed fingers of the right hand is described. The changes were found in a 4-year-old girl from Thailand.
The skin temperature gradient in the upper limbs of old women.	In the upper limbs of 103 convalescent old women, there was a fall of skin temperature between axilla and thumbs equal to 4.8 degrees C. Variations in temperature became wider from proximal to distal sites, being 3.2 degrees in the right axilla and 3.4 degrees C in the left; compared with 14.0 degrees in the right thumb and 13.6 degrees C in the left. Skin temperature could be correlated with circumambient air, but not with age.
Simple-spike activity of cerebellar Purkinje cells related to visually guided wrist tracking movement in the monkey.	1. Three rhesus monkeys were trained to perform a rapid (greater than 100 degrees/s) and a slow (less than 100 degrees/s) wrist movement guided by a visual cue. While the monkey performed wrist flexion or extension from a neutral position, Purkinje cell (P-cell) discharges were recorded from intermediate and lateral parts of lobules IV--VI of the cerebellum. 2. By the visually guided movement, we could control the direction of the wrist movement; the holding position at three different angles of the wrist joint: neutral, about 30 degrees flexed, and extended; and the velocity in four ranges: a) 10--30, b) 30--100, c) 100--300, and d) 300-650 degrees/s. 3. From 92 P-cells that significantly increased or decreased the discharge rate of simple spikes with task performance, we selected 45 P-cells ("response-locked" cells) as related to the wrist movement by statistical analyses of temporal correlation of P-cell activities to wrist movement. The direction of the frequency modulation (increase or decrease) was in a nonreciprocal fashion with oppositely directed wrist movements (flexion or extension) in 90% of the response-locked P-cells. The maintained frequencies at three holding positions did not significantly differ. 4. Nineteen P-cells changed their spike frequencies temporally locked to both rapid and slow wrist movements. By the discharge pattern in relation to the rapid and slow movements, these cells were classified into two groups. Discharge pattern in group I P-cells (n = 5) conformed very well to that of velocity, and a linear correlation between the instantaneous increase of the discharge rate and velocity was observed in analyses of individual trials. Group II cells showed increase (n = 9) or decrease (n = 5) of firing rate (20--50 spikes/s) larger than group I cells (less than 10 spikes/s) as long as the wrist was moving, even with very slow velocity (less than 30 degrees/s. The correlations between the increase of the discharge rate and the velocity in individual trials were less clear in group II than in group I cells. 5. The present study suggests the importance of the cerebellar cortex in controlling the slow limb movement as well as the rapid movement. The selected P-cells in this study also suggested that the velocity or some dynamic aspect related to the velocity of limb movement is the major information among the dissociated motion parameters coded by the simple-spike frequencies of the P-cells in the cerebellar hemisphere. Whether the latter suggestion represents an essential characteristic of all limb movement-related P-cells or reflects only a feature of a special subgroup among the movement-related cells should be clarified in future experiments.
Anatomical distribution of flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris motor nuclei in the cat spinal cord.	The distribution of motoneurons innervating the flexor carpi radialis (FCR) and flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) muscles was studied utilizing retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase (HRP). The motor nuclei showed considerable differences in their longitudinal extents. The FCR nucleus occupied spinal segments C6-T1 while FCU ranged from the C7-C8 junction to T1. Results with localized i.m. injection of HRP suggested a somatotopic distribution of these motoneurons.
Pathogenesis, clinic, and treatment of ganglion.	In clarification of various theories on the pathogenesis of the ganglion, histopathologic examinations indicate that the ganglion develops from connective tissue by myxoid degeneration and disintegration of collagen fibers. Increasing amounts of mucinous fluid accumulate by the progressive liquefaction of collagen fibers and are surrounded by densifying collagen bundles which form a delimiting capsule. In view of the inadequacy of conservative treatment and the shortcomings of excision, the subcutaneous (s.c.) discission of the ganglion with a tenotome is recommended. Of 184 patients treated this way, 151 displayed full healing, six underwent a successful repetition of the procedure, nine underwent an excision of the recurrent ganglion, and 18 rejected further treatment.
Measuring blood pressure at the wrist: critical analysis of a validation study]	The new device "Blood Pressure Watch" (BPW) by NAIS-Matsushita, which measures blood pressure oscillometrically at the hand wrist, is preferred by many hypertensive patients as a device for self-measurements because of its smallness and simple applicability.
Bond graphs and the exploitation of power conserving transformations.	Use is made of the guaranteed energy conservation property of any bond graph model (presuming that consistent energy variables are used). Thus power transformations are power conserving, and this property is exploited with respect to multiport transformers where many effort and flow variables may be involved. In these cases the relationship among the effort (flow) variables across the transformer may be easier to derive than the relationship among the flows (efforts). The power conserving nature of the transformer permits immediate derivation of the alternate variable relationship. This formulation procedure is applied to the reflex reaction of the arm.
Wrist splints in rheumatoid arthritis: a question of belief?	Wrist splints are often used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We applied a questionnaire to RA patients and rheumatologists to assess wrist splint use and to assess the policy of prescription. We related the reported use to patient satisfaction, severity of disease and physician's advice. Of 44 RA patients admitted to our hospital in 1990, 32 received one or more splints. Most patients (23) had both a wrist immobilization splint and a wrist activity splint (Futuro cock-up splint). The response rate to the questionnaire sent to all (n = 109) Dutch rheumatologists was 83%; 89 of 91 rheumatologists prescribed splints. Each rheumatologist prescribed yearly a mean of 30 immobilization splints (min-max: 2-120) and 51 activity splints (min-max: 4-170). Both types were mainly prescribed to relieve pain and reduce inflammation. From the patients' point of view, only the wrist activity splints were worth regular and continued use. Our findings suggest that if one prescribed splints, more attention should be paid to patient education and compliance.
De Quervain's tenosynovitis and ganglion over first dorsal extensor retinacular compartment.	Between 1988 to 1991, 80 cases of de Quervain's disease were managed at the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Singapore General Hospital. Six of them had an associated ganglion over the first dorsal retinacular compartment. Five out of 6 cases had intracompartment injections of hydrocortisone and lignocaine but the treatment was not effective in relieving the pain of de Quervain's tenosynovitis. All 6 cases had excision of the ganglion and decompression of the first extensor compartment. All the lumps were found arising from the dorsal aspect of the retinaculum and no intracompartment extension of the ganglion was found.
P6 acupressure and nausea and vomiting after gynaecological surgery.	We studied the effect of P6 acupressure on 46 women undergoing laparotomy for major gynaecological surgery who received patient-controlled analgesia. Half the patients received acupressure at the P6 site, the remainder received acupressure at a "sham" site. There was a reduction in the requests for anti-emetic therapy in the group receiving P6 acupressure but there was no difference in the incidence of nausea and vomiting. There was no difference in total morphine consumption between the two groups.
Long-term outcome of Volz total wrist arthroplasties.	The authors determined the outcomes of 18 consecutive Volz total wrist arthroplasties that were followed for an average of 8.6 years. Nine of these wrists were followed for 10 or more years. Fourteen wrists were replaced for rheumatoid arthritis and four for post-traumatic degenerative joint disease. Forty-nine degrees of combined flexion and extension and 25 degrees of combined ulnar and radial deviation were maintained. The balance of wrist motion was dependent upon the design and location of the metacarpal prosthesis. A 24% loss in carpal height (subsidence) occurred during the study period. Four metacarpal components were loose (22%), three of which were placed in patients with degenerative joint disease. One radial component (6%) was loose. Fifteen of 18 wrists (83%) had little or no pain. The three wrists with moderate or severe pain were in patients with degenerative joint disease. There were five (28%) complications. One revision was performed and another was recommended. Overall, the long-term outcome of total wrist arthroplasty was favorable in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Major neurovascular complications of endoscopic carpal tunnel release.	Endoscopic carpal tunnel release is becoming an increasingly popular method of surgically correcting median nerve compression. Several complications have been suggested as possibilities following the technique; however, to date, there have been only isolated reports of iatrogenic injury to major neurovascular structures in the hand. We report both a case of transection of the median nerve and a pseudoaneurysm of the superficial palmar arch following endoscopic carpal tunnel release.
Wrist-holding for the out of control child.	A method of preventing and limiting loss of control in therapy sessions is detailed. This begins with attunement to increasing excitement. Restraining the child by the wrists when dyscontrol occurs provides a safe and harmless means to limit the episode and continue therapy.
31P-NMR spectroscopy, rsEMG, and histochemical fiber types of human wrist flexor muscles.	The metabolic response to graded rhythmic forearm exercise determined by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (31P-NMR) spectroscopy was evaluated with respect to recruitment pattern of muscles and to fiber type composition of the nondominant arm in 14 untrained subjects. Rectified smoothed surface electromyography (rsEMG) over finger and wrist flexor muscles increased similarly and progressively at 30, 45, and 60% of maximal exercise intensity. On the basis of the 31P-NMR response pattern during exercise, subjects were separated into three groups: H group (n = 4), with a single high-pH P(i) peak; M group (n = 7), with two P(i) peaks reflecting two pH components; and L group (n = 3), with a single low-pH P(i) peak. The H group demonstrated a faster recovery of P(i) and phosphocreatine than the L group (P < 0.05). The M group displayed both types of P(i) recovery and an intermediate resynthesis rate of phosphocreatine. The M group had an even distribution of slow- and fast-twitch fibers in the flexor carpi radialis muscle, whereas subjects in the H and L groups possessed a predominance of slow- and fast-twitch fibers, respectively. The results suggest that during rhythmic forearm exercise the interindividual NMR variation in energy metabolism is related closely to fiber type composition of the muscle.
Differences in behaviour of sensory and motor axons following release of ischaemia.	The changes in excitability and supernormality of sensory and motor axons of the median (or ulnar) nerve were tracked during and following ischaemia at the wrist for periods of 5-20 min in normal human volunteers. Supernormality was defined as the fractional increase in excitability produced by a maximal conditioning stimulus, 10 ms before the test stimulus. With relatively brief periods of ischaemia (< 10 min), sensory and motor axons behaved similarly, with an increase in excitability (producing a decrease in threshold) and a decrease in supernormality during ischaemia and a long-lasting decrease in excitability (and increase in supernormality) following release of ischaemia. Most subjects reported paraesthesiae during brief periods of ischaemia but not after its release. No one experienced fasciculation. The threshold changes were generally similar during longer periods of ischaemia, but in the post-ischaemic phase the behaviour of sensory and motor axons diverged. After a rapid post-ischaemic increase, the threshold of sensory axons decreased, approaching the pre-ischaemic level, before rising again and then slowly returning to the control level. Sensory axons of different threshold behaved in a qualitatively similar manner, with no evidence of a bimodal distribution of thresholds in the post-ischaemic phase (as occurs with motor axons when the ischaemia is sufficient to produce fasciculation; see Bostock et al. J. Physiol (Lond) 1991; 441: 537-57). The 'notch' on the threshold plot for sensory axons lasted 20-40 min and was accompanied by a relatively small but appropriate change in supernormality. No such 'notch' was seen with motor axons. The changes in latency were generally similar for sensory and motor axons, largely paralleling the supernormality plots, except at the time of the 'notch'. To test the hypothesis that the differences in behaviour of sensory and motor axons resulted from differences in inward rectification activated by hyperpolarization, the changes in threshold produced by long-lasting (300 ms) depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current pulses were compared for sensory and motor axons. In seven of eight subjects, there was evidence of more inward rectification in sensory axons. In the eighth subject, motor axons behaved similarly to sensory axons. It is concluded that a difference in inward rectification contributes to but is insufficient by itself to account for the differences in behaviour of sensory and motor axons and that the greater propensity of sensor y axons to discharge ectopically cannot be attributed to a single factor.
Unilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and space-occupying lesions.	To assess the association between unilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and space-occupying lesions, 128 patients have been reviewed. They were divided into bilateral, subclinical (unilateral signs and symptoms, and bilateral slowing in the median nerve conduction) and unilateral carpal tunnel syndrome. Space-occupying lesions were investigated on the basis of physical examination and wrist imaging using plain radiographs and ultrasonograms. Of 20 patients with unilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, space-occupying lesions were found in seven (occult ganglion in five and occult calcified mass in two). In contrast, none of 89 patients with bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and 19 with subclinical carpal tunnel syndrome had space-occupying lesions. We conclude that careful examination and wrist imaging on suspicion of local pathology, especially a space-occupying lesion, are needed when the condition is unilateral and the aetiology is not clear from the history and on physical examination.
Aseptic necrosis presenting as wrist pain in SLE.	Aseptic necrosis of the wrist in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is not rare. In 156 patients with SLE, aseptic necrosis occurred in 11 patients, of whom 3 (27%) had wrist involvement. Onset of pain was insidious and the symptoms were thought to be related to synovitis due to SLE. An average of 11 months elapsed before aseptic necrosis was correctly diagnosed. An awareness of this possibility is important in the management of any patient with SLE who complains of wrist pain.
Hand flexor tenosynovitis in rheumatoid arthritis. Prevalence, distribution, and associated rheumatic features.	Tenosynovitis of one or more flexor tendons of the hand (mean 3.1 tendons per patient) was noted in 55% of 100 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) examined periodically during a mean period of 5 years. The third flexor tendon was involved most frequently (71% of patients), followed by the second (62%), fourth (53%), fifth (27%), and first (13%). Patients with flexor tendonitis (FT) had a significantly higher prevalence of rheumatoid nodules (56% vs 33%), carpal tunnel syndrome (47% vs 13%), wrist extensor tenosynovitis (47% vs 9%), and elbow epicondylitis (22% vs 7%) than patients without FT. Dupuytren's contracture, DeQuervain's tenovaginitis, flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris tendonitis, and Achilles tendonitis were found exclusively in patients with FT. A control group of 50 non-RA patients with FT had statistically fewer diseased tendons per patient (mean 1.5) and a different digital distribution, the thumb being affected more frequently (P less than 0.05) than in RA patients.
Epidemiology of musculoskeletal disorders due to biomechanical overload.	The link between occupation and musculoskeletal disorders has been focused on in numerous research projects, ranging from those simply observing the different pathological findings reported among workers performing particular tasks, down to the latest studies actually quantifying the 'exposure' of workers to physical and psychosocial stimuli. For some disorders and certain tissues, it has been reported that specific types of work-related exposure are associated with the development of musculoskeletal pathologies, and that the relative risks for certain types of occupational exposure can be extremely high. This has been proven in relation to tendinitis of the shoulder and hand-wrist, carpal tunnel syndrome, as well as several localized aspecific musculoskeletal symptoms, such as pain. For other pathologies, the studies reported contradictory results. This is the case for lateral epicondylitis and cervical radiculopathy.
Ergonomic stressors and upper extremity disorders in vehicle manufacturing: cross sectional exposure-response trends.	To evaluate the association between upper extremity soft tissue disorders and exposure to preventable ergonomic stressors in vehicle manufacturing operations.
Median nerve F-wave study derived by flexor carpi radialis.	F-responses are produced by the antidromic activation of a limited number of motoneurones and its study can be used as a diagnostic criteria in cervical radiculopathies. Usually ulnar nerve stimulation (hypothenar derivation) and median nerve stimulation (thenar derivation) is used, so providing information mainly about 8th cervical root and 1st thoracic root. The authors describe a method for studying F-wave by median nerve stimulation and flexor carpi radialis derivation to evaluate C6-C7 roots. F-waves were clearly individuated in 47 normal subjects (94 nerves) aged from 21 to 59. Latency range was 18.0-24.0 msec, mean 21.4 +/- 1.48 (2 SD). The results of the test applied on 6 paradigmatic cases of C6-C7 radiculopathy are reported.
