Inhibition of JNK activation through NF-kappaB target genes.	The proinflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) regulates immune responses, inflammation and programmed cell death (apoptosis). The ultimate fate of a cell exposed to TNF-alpha is determined by signal integration between its different effectors, including IkappaB kinase (IKK), c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) and caspases. Activation of caspases is required for apoptotic cell death, whereas IKK activation inhibits apoptosis through the transcription factor NF-kappaB, whose target genes include caspase inhibitors. JNK activates the transcription factor c-Jun/AP-1, as well as other targets. However, the role of JNK activation in apoptosis induced by TNF-alpha is less clear. It is unknown whether any crosstalk occurs between IKK and JNK, and, if so, how it affects TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis. We investigated this using murine embryonic fibroblasts that are deficient in either the IKKbeta catalytic subunit of the IKK complex or the RelA/p65 subunit of NF-kappaB. Here we show that in addition to inhibiting caspases, the IKK/NF-kappaB pathway negatively modulates TNF-alpha-mediated JNK activation, partly through NF-kappaB-induced X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP). This negative crosstalk, which is specific to TNF-alpha signalling and does not affect JNK activation by interleukin-1 (IL-1), contributes to inhibition of apoptosis.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) induces antiapoptotic and proapoptotic signals in acute myeloid leukemia.	High levels of cytokines are associated with a poor prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, cytokines may induce, on one hand, survival factor expression and cell proliferation and, on the other hand, expression of inhibitory signals such as up-regulation of suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) and induce apoptotic cell death. Because blasts from patients with AML express high procaspase protein levels, we asked whether granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) enhances procaspase protein production in AML cells. In the GM-CSF-responsive OCIM2 AML cell line, GM-CSF induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (Stat 5) phosphorylation, up-regulated cyclin D2, and stimulated cell cycle progression. Concurrently, GM-CSF stimulated expression of SOCS-2 and -3 and of procaspases 2 and 3 and induced caspase 3 activation, poly(ADP[adenosine 5'-diphosphate]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage, and apoptotic cell death. The Janus kinase (Jak)-Stat inhibitor AG490 abrogated GM-CSF-induced expression of procaspase 3 and activation of caspase 3. Under the same conditions GM-CSF up-regulated production of BAX as well as Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, survivin, and XIAP. GM-CSF also increased procaspase 3 protein levels in OCI/AML3 and Mo7e cells, suggesting that this phenomenon is not restricted to a single leukemia cell line. Our data suggest that GM-CSF exerts a dual effect: it stimulates cell division but contemporaneously up-regulates Jak-Stat-dependent proapoptotic proteins. Up-regulation of procaspase levels in AML is thus a beacon for an ongoing growth-stimulatory signal.
Transgenic mice overexpressing XIAP in neurons show better outcome after transient cerebral ischemia.	X-chromosome linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family and known to inhibit death of various cells under different experimental conditions. Although present in brain tissue, little is known about the physiology of the IAPs in nerve cells. Here we report on the establishment of transgenic mice with overexpression of human XIAP in brain neurons. The mice developed normally, and were more resistant to brain injury caused by transient forebrain ischemia after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery compared to control mice. The XIAP transgenic animals exhibited significantly smaller brain damage, as shown by TUNEL labelling, less reduction in brain protein synthesis, and less active caspase-3 after ischemia compared with controls. Upregulation of RhoB, which is an early indicator of neurological damage, was markedly reduced in the XIAP-overexpressing mice, which had also a better neurological outcome than control animals. This together with the increase in XIAP in normal mouse brain in regions surviving the infarct demonstrates that XIAP is an important factor promoting neuronal survival after ischemia. The results suggest that interference with the levels and the activity of XIAP in neurons may provide targets for the development of drugs limiting neuronal death after ischemia, and possibly in other brain injuries.
Caspase-3 activation is an early event and initiates apoptotic damage in a human leukemia cell line.	Many apoptotic pathways culminate in the activation of caspase cascades usually triggered by the apical caspases-8 or -9. We describe a paradigm where apoptosis is initiated by the effector caspase-3. Diethylmaleate (DEM)-induced apoptotic damage in Jurkat cells was blocked by the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, whereas, a peptide inhibitor of caspase-3 but not caspase-9 blocked DEM-induced mitochondrial damage. Isogenic Jurkat cell lines deficient for caspase-8 or the adaptor FADD (Fas associated death domain) were not protected from DEM-induced apoptosis. Caspase-3 activation preceded that of caspase-9 and initial processing of caspase-3 was regulated independent of caspase-9 and Bcl-2. However, inhibitors of caspase-9 or caspase-6 regulated caspase-3 later in the pathway. We explored the mechanism by which caspase-3 processing is regulated in this system. DEM triggered a loss of Erk-1/2 phosphorylation and XIAP (X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein) expression. The phorbol ester PMA activated a MEK-dependent pathway to block caspase-3 processing and cell death. Constitutively active MEK-1 (CA-MEK) upregulated XIAP expression and exogenous XIAP inhibited DEM-induced apoptotic damage. Thus, we describe a pathway where caspase-3 functions to initiate apoptotic damage and caspase-9 and caspase-6 amplify the apoptotic cascade. Further, we show that MEK may regulate caspase-3 activation via the regulation of XIAP expression in these cells.
Short-term caloric restriction and regulatory proteins of apoptosis in heart, skeletal muscle and kidney of Fischer 344 rats.	Long-term caloric restriction reduces oxidative stress, increases mean and maximum lifespan in rodents and tends to enhance apoptosis, particularly in the liver. We investigated the effect of short-term (2 months) caloric restriction (40% reduction) in 6-month-old male Fischer 344 rats on various indicators of apoptosis (caspase-3, -7, -12, the inhibitor of apoptosis protein XIAP and cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments) in the post-mitotic heart and gastrocnemius muscle, and the kidney that contains mitotic cells. Short-term caloric restriction significantly reduced body mass (30%), gastrocnemius muscle mass (22%), heart mass (25%) and kidney mass (32%) compared to ad libitum controls. The levels of procaspase-3 in gastrocnemius muscle and caspase-3 in kidney were significantly lower in the caloric restricted than in the ad libitum fed group. While caloric restriction did not alter DNA fragmentation levels (indicative of apoptosis), differences did exist amongst tissues with significantly elevated levels of fragmentation in the kidney compared to the heart and gastrocnemius muscle and significantly higher levels in the heart compared to gastrocnemius muscle. No differences were observed between groups in the levels of procaspase-7 or -12 or in XIAP (an endogenous inhibitor of apoptosis, particularly of caspase-3 and -7) in any tissue. The active forms of caspase-7 and -12 were present only in the kidney. These findings suggest that while the rate of apoptosis was higher in the kidney, which contains mitotic cells, compared to the post-mitotic heart and gastrocnemius muscle, short-term caloric restriction did not enhance the apoptosis rate in any tissue measured.
Hypoxia-induced cell death in human malignant glioma cells: energy deprivation promotes decoupling of mitochondrial cytochrome c release from caspase processing and necrotic cell death.	Hypoxia induces apoptosis in primary and transformed cells and in various tumor cell lines in vitro. In contrast, there is little apoptosis and predominant necrosis despite extensive hypoxia in human glioblastomas in vivo. We here characterize ultrastructural and biochemical features of cell death in LN-229, LN-18 and U87MG malignant glioma cells in a paradigm of hypoxia with partial glucose deprivation in vitro. Electron microscopic analysis of hypoxia-challenged glioma cells demonstrated early stages of apoptosis but predominant necrosis. ATP levels declined during hypoxia, but recovered with re-exposure to normoxic conditions unless hypoxia exceeded 8 h. Longer hypoxic exposure resulted in irreversible ATP depletion and delayed cell death. Hypoxia induced mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, but there was no cleavage of caspases 3, 7, 8 or 9, and no DNA fragmentation. Ectopic expression of BCL-XL conferred protection from hypoxia-induced cell death, whereas the overexpression of the antiapoptotic proteins X-linked-inhibitor-of-apoptosis-protein and cytokine response modifier-A had no effect. These findings suggest that glioma cells resist adverse effects of hypoxia until energy stores are depleted and then undergo necrosis rather than apoptosis because of energy deprivation.
Immunosuppressant PG490 (triptolide) induces apoptosis through the activation of caspase-3 and down-regulation of XIAP in U937 cells.	PG490 (triptolide) is a natural, biologically active compound extracted from Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii. It possesses potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. The mechanism by which triptolide initiates apoptosis remains poorly understood. In the present report, we investigated the effect of triptolide on the apoptotic pathway in U937 human promonocytic cells. We show that triptolide inhibits U937 cells growth by inducing apoptosis. Following treatment of U937 cells with 25 nM triptoride for 24 hr, morphological features of apoptosis and DNA fragmentation were observed. Caspase inhibitors significantly reduced triptolide-induced caspase-3 activation. In addition, apoptosis triggered by triptolide was not associated with the generation of reactive oxygen species, which was not affected by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC). The data collectively indicate that the cytotoxic effect of triptolide in U937 cells is attributable to apoptosis mediated by the caspase-3 activation pathway that may be associated with XIAP down-regulation.
Conformational restrictions in the active site of unliganded human caspase-3.	Caspases are cysteine proteases that play a critical role in the initiation and regulation of apoptosis. These enzymes act in a cascade to promote cell death through proteolytic cleavage of intracellular proteins. Since activation of apoptosis is implicated in human diseases such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, caspases are targets for drugs designed to modulate their action. Active caspases are heterodimeric enzymes with two symmetrically arranged active sites at opposite ends of the molecule. A number of crystal structures of caspases with peptides or proteins bound at the active sites have defined the mechanism of action of these enzymes, but molecular information about the active sites before substrate engagement has been lacking. As part of a study of peptidyl inhibitors of caspase-3, we crystallized a complex where the inhibitor did not bind in the active site. Here we present the crystal structure of the unoccupied substrate-binding site of caspase-3. No large conformational differences were apparent when this site was compared with that in enzyme-inhibitor complexes. Instead, the 1.9 A structure reveals critical side chain movements in a hydrophobic pocket in the active site. Notably, the side chain of tyrosine204 is rotated by approximately 90 degrees so that the phenol group occupies the S2 subsite in the active site. Thus, binding of substrate or inhibitors is impeded unless rotation of this side chain opens the area. The positions of these side chains may have important implications for the directed design of inhibitors of caspase-3 or caspase-7.
The gene expression profile of human umbilical vein endothelial cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide using cDNA microarray analysis.	Vascular endothelium, situated at the boundary between blood and tissues, is now known to play a critical role in the inflammatory process through recruiting immune cells into tissues and sites of inflammation. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), endotoxic component extracted from the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria, stimulates endothelial cells to activate the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappaB and induce various adhesion molecules and inflammatory mediators. Among the anti-apoptotic genes activated by NF-kappaB, transcripts for inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) are rapidly induced in response to LPS and delay apoptosis through direct and indirect inhibition of caspase activity. In the present study we carried out cDNA microarray analysis to elucidate how LPS alters program of gene expression of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and to identify genes that are differentially expressed in HUVECs cultured with LPS as a mimickappaing of pathologic and physiologic inflammatory conditions in vitro. From the analysis of cDNA microarray together with Northern blotting and semi-quantitative RT-PCR, we identified dramatically upregulated both previously reported and undiscovered transcripts for adhesion molecules, inflammation/chemokappaines, transcription factors and anti-apoptotic proteins in LPS-stimulated HUVECs. In addition, we simultaneously identified anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative stress and pro-apoptotic genes highly upregulated by LPS treatment in HUVECs. Surprisingly, although cIAP-1, cIAP-2 and XIAP transcripts were highly upregulated, their expression of endogenous proteins were not increased in HUVECs stimulated with LPS indicating the existence of yet undiscovered transcriptional or translational mechanisms may control expression and regulation of IAPs. The data presented here therefore suggest that when endothelial cells are challenged by inflammatory stimuli such as LPS, they undergo functional changes not only for the proinflammatory but also for the anti-inflammatory states and these may further be controlled by particular cellular or environmental signals in vascular pathological and physiological diseases.
Antisense oligonucleotides targeting XIAP induce apoptosis and enhance chemotherapeutic activity against human lung cancer cells in vitro and in vivo.	Activation of programmed cell death in cancer cells offers novel and potentially useful approaches to improving patient responses to conventional chemotherapy. X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP), is the most potent member of the IAP gene family in terms of its ability to inhibit caspases and suppress apoptosis. In this study, we investigated the effect of XIAP down-regulation by antisense oligonucleotides (AS ODNs) on human non-small cell lung cancer (NIH-H460) growth in vitro and in vivo. In cultured H460 cells, G4 AS ODN was identified as the most potent compound. It down-regulated XIAP mRNA by 55% and protein levels up to 60% as determined by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and Western blotting, respectively, and induced 60% cell death. In contrast, the scrambled control ODN caused minimal XIAP loss and less than 10% cell death. Treatment with G4 AS ODN induced apoptosis as revealed by degradation of procaspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase proteins with significant nuclear DNA condensation and fragmentation. In addition, G4 AS ODNs sensitized H460 cells to the cytotoxic effects of doxorubicin, Taxol, vinorelbine, and etoposide. In animal models, administration of G4 AS ODN had significant sequence-specific inhibitory effects on H460 solid tumor establishment in a xenograft model. This antitumor activity was associated with an 85% down-regulation of XIAP protein in the tumors. In addition, the combination of 15 mg/kg G4 AS ODN with 5 mg/kg vinorelbine significantly delayed tumor establishment, more than either agent alone. These studies support the contention that XIAP is a viable target for cancer therapy in human non-small cell lung cancer.
The mitochondrial ARTS protein promotes apoptosis through targeting XIAP.	ARTS is an unusual septin-like mitochondrial protein that was originally shown to mediate TGF-beta-induced apoptosis. Recently, we found that ARTS is also important for cell killing by other pro-apoptotic factors, such as arabinoside, etoposide, staurosporine and Fas. In Drosophila, the IAP antagonists Reaper, Hid and Grim are essential for the induction of virtually all apoptotic cell death. We found that mutations in peanut, which encodes a Drosophila homologue of ARTS, can dominantly suppress cell killing by Reaper, Hid and Grim, indicating that peanut acts downstream or in parallel to these. In mammalian cells, ARTS is released from mitochondria upon pro-apoptotic stimuli and then binds to XIAP. Binding of ARTS to XIAP is direct, as recombinant ARTS and XIAP proteins can bind to each other in vitro. ARTS binding to XIAP is specific and related to its pro-apoptotic function, as mutant forms of ARTS (or related septins) that fail to bind XIAP failed to induce apoptosis. ARTS leads to decreased XIAP protein levels and caspase activation. Our data suggest that ARTS induces apoptosis by antagonizing IAPs.
Amyloid-beta down-regulates XIAP expression in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.	Recent observations suggest that amyloid-beta (Abeta), a major constituent of senile plaques, induces apoptosis in cultured neuronal cells. However, the concentration of Abeta that leads to neuronal cell death is much higher (10-25 microM) than that in the cerebrospinal fluid of normal controls or AD patients (nM order). As reported here, we found that subtoxic concentrations (100-500 nM) of Abeta(1-42) can down-regulate the expression of the X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells, and that vulnerability to oxidative stress caused by Abeta(1-42) is attenuated by over-expression of XIAP. These results suggest that down-regulation of XIAP expression in response to subtoxic, more physiological concentrations (100-500 nM) of Abeta(1-42) increases vulnerability to oxidative stress.
NF-kappaB-mediated IAP expression induces resistance of intestinal epithelial cells to apoptosis after polyamine depletion.	Apoptosis plays a crucial role in maintenance of intestinal epithelial integrity and is highly regulated by numerous factors, including cellular polyamines. We recently showed that polyamines regulate nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activity in normal intestinal epithelial (IEC-6) cells and that polyamine depletion activates NF-kappaB and promotes resistance to apoptosis. The current study went further to determine whether the inhibitors of apoptosis (IAP) family of proteins, c-IAP2 and XIAP, are downstream targets of activated NF-kappaB and play a role in antiapoptotic activity of polyamine depletion in IEC-6 cells. Depletion of cellular polyamines by alpha-difluoromethylornithine not only activated NF-kappaB activity but also increased expression of c-IAP2 and XIAP. Specific inhibition of NF-kappaB by the recombinant adenoviral vector containing IkappaBalpha superrepressor (AdIkappaBSR) prevented the induction of c-IAP2 and XIAP in polyamine-deficient cells. Decreased levels of c-IAP2 and XIAP proteins by inactivation of NF-kappaB through AdIkappaBSR infection or treatment with the specific inhibitor Smac also overcame the resistance of polyamine-depleted cells to apoptosis induced by the combination of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and cycloheximide (CHX). Although polyamine depletion did not alter levels of procaspase-3 protein, it inhibited formation of the active caspase-3. Decreased levels of c-IAP2 and XIAP by Smac prevented the inhibitory effect of polyamine depletion on the cleavage of procaspase-3 to the active caspase-3. These results indicate that polyamine depletion increases expression of c-IAP2 and XIAP by activating NF-kappaB in intestinal epithelial cells. Increased c-IAP2 and XIAP after polyamine depletion induce the resistance to TNF-alpha/CHX-induced apoptosis, at least partially, through inhibition of the caspase-3 activity.
Caspase activation - stepping on the gas or releasing the brakes? Lessons from humans and flies.	The central components of the execution phase of apoptosis in worms, flies, and humans are members of the caspase protease family. Work in Drosophila and mammalian systems has revealed a web of interactions that govern the activity of these proteases, and two fundamental control points have been identified. These are zymogen activation - the process that converts a latent caspase into its active form, and inhibition of the resulting active protease. In humans, the driving force for caspase activity is activation of the zymogens, but in Drosophila, a major thrust is derepression of caspase inhibitors. In this review, we consider evidence for these two distinct events in terms of the regulation of caspase activity. This sets the scene for therapy to reinstate the normal death mechanisms that have been overcome in a cancer cell's quest for immortality.
The histone deacetylase inhibitor suberic bishydroxamate regulates the expression of multiple apoptotic mediators and induces mitochondria-dependent apoptosis of melanoma cells.	Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have attracted much interest because of their ability to arrest cell growth, induce cell differentiation, and in some cases, induce apoptosis of cancer cells. In the present study, we have examined a new HDAC inhibitor, suberic bishydroxamate (SBHA), for its effect on a panel of human melanoma cell lines. We report that it induces varying degrees of apoptosis in the melanoma lines but not in melanocytes and fibroblasts. Induction of apoptosis was caspase dependent and was associated with induction of changes in mitochondrial membrane permeability, which could be inhibited by overexpression of Bcl-2. The changes in mitochondria were independent of caspase activation and were associated with changes in conformation of Bax. SBHA down-regulated several key antiapoptotic proteins including X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis and the Bcl-2 family proteins, Bcl-XL and Mcl-1. In contrast, it induced up-regulation of the Bcl-2 family proapoptotic proteins, Bim, Bax, and Bak. In addition, SBHA induced relocation of the protein Bim to mitochondria and its association with Bcl-2. De novo protein synthesis was required for initiation of apoptosis in that the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, inhibited SBHA-induced conformational changes in Bax as well as changes in mitochondrial membrane permeability and activation of caspase-3. These results suggest that SBHA induces apoptosis by changing the balance between proapoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins in melanoma cells. The protein Bim may be a key initiator of apoptosis in cells treated with SBHA.
A critical role of glutathione in determining apoptosis sensitivity and resistance in leukemia cells.	In chemosensitive leukemias and solid tumors, anticancer drugs have been shown to induce apoptosis. Deficiencies in the apoptotic pathways may lead to chemoresistance. Here we report that glutathione (GSH) plays a critical role in activation of apoptosis pathways by CD95 (APO-1/Fas) or anticancer drugs. Upon treatment with anticancer drugs or CD95 triggering, CD95-resistant or Bcl-x(L) overexpressing CEM cells were deficient in activation of apoptosis pathways. CD95-resistant and Bcl-x(L) overexpressing CEM cells exhibited higher intracellular GSH levels in comparison to parental cells. Downregulation of GSH by L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoxime (BSO), a specific inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, reversed deficiencies in activation of apoptosis pathways by anticancer drugs or CD95. Interestingly, downregulation of GSH by BSO increased CD95 DISC formation in type I cells. In hybrids of CD95-resistant cells with sensitive cells and hybrids of overexpressing Bcl-x(L) cells with sensitive cells, the phenotype of apoptosis resistance was dominant. Also, in these hybrids, downregulation of GSH reversed CD95- and chemoresistance. We conclude that dominant apoptosis resistance depends, at least in part, on intracellular GSH levels, which may affect apoptosis signaling at different compartments, for example, the death receptor or mitochondria.
BRCA1 185delAG mutation inhibits Akt-dependent, IAP-mediated caspase 3 inactivation in human ovarian surface epithelial cells.	BRCA1 mutations have long been associated with altered apoptosis. We have recently reported that caspase 3 activation is increased in human ovarian surface epithelial (OSE) cells expressing a germline N-terminal BRCA1 185delAG mutation. Here, we report increased caspase 3 activity in 185delAG OSE cells associated with decreased expression of cIAP-1 and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP), and decreased ubiquitination of caspase 3. Overexpression of XIAP restored active caspase 3 ubiquitination and lowered levels of caspase 3 activity. Further, the BRCA1 185delAG mutation was associated with reduced levels of phosphorylated Akt1. Transfection with activated Akt1 led to increased cIAP-1 and XIAP levels similar to that seen in BRCA1 185delAG cell lines. Taken together, these data suggest a direct link between the BRCA1 185delAG mutation and alterations in the caspase-mediated apoptotic pathway.
Effects of age and caloric restriction on brain neuronal cell death/survival.	Aging may pose a challenge to the central nervous system, increasing its susceptibility to apoptotic events. Recent findings indicate that caloric restriction (CR) may have a profound effect on brain function and vulnerability to injury and diseases, by enhancing neuroprotection, stimulating the production of new neurons, and increasing synaptic plasticity. Apoptosis and apoptotic regulatory proteins in the brain frontal cortex of 6-month-old ad libitum fed (6AD), 26-month-old ad libitum fed (26AD), and 26-month-old caloric-restricted (26CR) male Fischer 344 rats (40% restriction compared to ad libitum fed) were investigated. Levels of Poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP-DNA repair enzyme; its cleaved 89 kDA fragment is a marker of apoptosis), cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments, and X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP--an endogenous apoptosis inhibitor) were determined. A significant age-associated increase in PARP was found, which was ameliorated in the frontal cortices of the CR rats. No significant differences in cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments with age or with CR were observed. XIAP levels significantly increased with age in the brains of the ad libitum animals, while CR animals exhibited the highest levels of this inhibitor compared to all groups. Our findings suggest that caloric restriction may provide neuroprotection to the aging brain by preserving DNA repair enzymes in their intact form, and/or upregulating specific antiapoptotic proteins involved in neuronal cell death.
Adenoviral-mediated transfer of p53 gene enhances TRAIL-induced apoptosis in human hepatocellular carcinoma cells.	p53 is a tumor suppressor protein with numerous biological functions including transformation, regulation of cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis. The TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) can induce apoptosis in various transformed cell lines. We investigated the effects of combining wild-type p53 gene transduction by adenoviral infection (Ad-p53) with addition of TRAIL on cell death, expression levels of TRAIL receptors (TRAIL-R1, TRAIL-R2), FLICE inhibitory protein (FLIP) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) on human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines. HCC cell death was increased by combination of Ad-p53 infection and addition of TRAIL compared to either alone. Western blotting demonstrated decreased TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2 levels after infection with Ad-p53. FLIP levels decreased in Huh7 cells and Hep3B cells, and XIAP levels decreased in all three HCC cell lines after infection with Ad-p53. Thus, death of HCC cells due to combined p53 gene transduction and exogenous TRAIL may be due to down regulation of FLIP or XIAP.
Neutralization of Smac/Diablo by inhibitors of apoptosis (IAPs). A caspase-independent mechanism for apoptotic inhibition.	Numerous members of the IAP family can suppress apoptotic cell death in physiological settings. Whereas certain IAPs directly inhibit caspases, the chief proteolytic effectors of apoptosis, the protective effects of other IAPs do not correlate well with their caspase inhibitory activities, suggesting the involvement of alternative cytoprotective abilities. To examine this issue, we have characterized the protective effects of an ancestral, baculoviral IAP (Op-IAP) in mammalian cells. We show that although Op-IAP potently inhibited Bax-mediated apoptosis in human cells, Op-IAP failed to directly inhibit mammalian caspases. However, Op-IAP efficiently bound the IAP antagonist Smac/Diablo, thereby preventing Smac/Diablo-mediated inhibition of cellular IAPs. Whereas reduction of Smac/Diablo protein levels in the absence of Op-IAP prevented Bax-mediated apoptosis, overexpression of Smac/Diablo neutralized Op-IAP-mediated protection, and an Op-IAP variant unable to bind Smac/Diablo failed to prevent apoptosis. Finally, Op-IAP catalyzed the ubiquitination of Smac/Diablo, an activity that contributed to Op-IAP-mediated inhibition of apoptosis. These data show that cytoprotective IAPs can inhibit apoptosis through the neutralization of IAP antagonists, rather than by directly inhibiting caspases.
Rapid induction of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway by L-glutamine starvation.	While the amino acid L-glutamine is known to play a role in the survival of several cell types, the underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly defined. We show in this report that L-glutamine starvation rapidly triggered apoptosis in Sp2/0-Ag14 hybridoma cells. This process involved the activation of both caspases-9 and -3, suggesting that L-glutamine deprivation initiated an intrinsic apoptotic pathway in Sp2/0-Ag14 cells. Supporting this idea, the cytosolic release of the mitochondrial proteins SMAC/DIABLO and cytochrome c (Cyt c) was observed, with an initial limited leakage occurring during the first 30 min of L-glutamine deprivation, followed by a greater release after 60 min. The latter occurred simultaneously with the translocation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax to the mitochondria. Finally, a decline in XIAP levels and the activation of caspases-3 and -9 were observed. Thus, L-glutamine deprivation of Sp2/0-Ag14 cells rapidly triggers intracellular events, which target the mitochondria, leading to the cytosolic release of apoptogenic factors, the activation of caspases-9 and -3, and the commitment to the death program. This work introduces the Sp2/0Ag14 hybridoma as a unique model for the study of the molecular events underlying the pro-survival function of L-glutamine.
Functional applications of novel Semliki Forest virus vectors are limited by vector toxicity in cultures of primary neurons in vitro and in the substantia nigra in vivo.	The Semliki Forest virus (SFV) system has been shown to be highly efficient in transduction of cell lines and primary cells. We employed a novel "noncytotoxic" SFV(PD) vector for transduction of primary ventral midbrain floor cultures in vitro and rat substantia nigra in vivo. Rapid protein expression was noted with preferential transduction of neuronal cells including the dopaminergic subpopulation. To examine the suitability of the SFV vector system for functional gene expression, SFV(PD) vectors encoding for antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-X(L) and XIAP were designed. Despite effective transgene expression, SFV(PD) vectors were unable to rescue dopaminergic neurons from MPP+-induced apoptosis. In vivo, virus injection into substantia nigra resulted in fast onset of transgene expression, but elicited an activation of microglia and an inflammation response. We conclude that the use of novel SFV(PD) vectors is currently limited by persistent neurotoxicity of the vector system. Although SFV(PD) vectors may be useful for protein localization studies in dopaminergic neurons, functional applications will require the development of even less cytopathic vector systems.
XIAP expression correlates with monocytic differentiation in adult de novo AML: impact on prognosis.	Antiapoptotic proteins like the inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) are molecular markers potentially useful for the characterization of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We screened 92 adults with de novo AML for the protein expression of various IAPs, Bcl-2 family members and the proform of Caspase-3 using quantitative immunoblot and flow cytometry. XIAP expression correlated with myelomonocytic French-American-British (FAB) subtypes M4/M5 (P < 0.05) and expression of monocytic markers (CD 14, CD 36; P < 0.05; CD 4, HLA-DR; P < 0.01) in AML blasts. In addition, XIAP was overexpressed in normal monocytes but undetectable in granulocytes. In AML, XIAP expression was significantly lower in patients with favorable than intermediate or poor cytogenetics (n = 74; P < 0.05). In total, 62 of the examined patients were treated according to the German AML Cooperative Group (AMLCG) 92 protocol. These patients were analyzed for prognostic significance of apoptosis-related proteins. Patients expressing low levels of XIAP enjoyed better overall survival than patients expressing high amounts of XIAP (mean, 9 (n = 41) versus 19 months (n = 21); P < 0.05). Other IAPs, most importantly Survivin, were of no prognostic value. We conclude that XIAP but not other IAP family members is associated with monocytic differentiation in normal and malignant myelopoiesis, and may be of prognostic significance for overall survival in adult de novo AML.
Translational regulation of XIAP expression and cell survival during hypoxia in human cholangiocarcinoma.	Tumor progression is promoted by the ability of tumor cells to resist adverse environmental conditions such as hypoxia. We have shown that translational dysregulation contributes to transformed cell growth in malignant cholangiocytes. Translational regulation of gene expression can contribute to an immediate and rapid response to environmental changes such as hypoxia. Thus, our aims were to assess translational mechanisms involved in cell survival during hypoxia and to identify specific translationally regulated proteins involved in the cellular response to hypoxia.
IAPs are functionally non-equivalent and regulate effector caspases through distinct mechanisms.	Some members of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family suppress apoptosis by neutralizing caspases. The current model suggests that all caspase-regulatory IAPs function as direct enzyme inhibitors, blocking effector caspases by binding to their catalytically active pockets. Here we show that IAPs are functionally non-equivalent and regulate effector caspases through distinct mechanisms. Whereas XIAP binds directly to the active-site pockets of effector caspases, we find that regulation of effector caspases by Drosophila IAP1 (DIAP1) requires an evolutionarily conserved IAP-binding motif (IBM) at the neo-amino terminus of the large caspase subunit. Remarkably, unlike XIAP, DIAP1-sequestered effector caspases remain catalytically active, suggesting that DIAP1 does not function as a bona fide enzyme inhibitor. Moreover, we demonstrate that the mammalian IAP c-IAP1 interacts with caspase-7 in an exclusively IBM-dependent, but active site pocket-independent, manner that is mechanistically similar to DIAP1. The importance of IBM-mediated regulation of effector-caspases in vivo is substantiated by the enhanced apoptotic potency of IBM-mutant versions of drICE, DCP-1 and caspase-7.
Expression of cellular proteins Bcl-X(L), XIAP and Bax involved in apoptosis in cells infected with herpes simplex virus 1 and effect of pavine alkaloid (-)-thalimonine on virus-induced suppression of apoptosis.	The expression of three cellular proteins involved in the modulation of apoptosis, namely antiapoptotic Bcl-X(L) and XIAP and proapoptotic Bax, was investigated in cells infected with Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1). To assess whether the regulation of apoptosis in virus-infected cells depends on strain specificity the wild-type (wt) strain Victoria and the mutant R-100 resistant to acyclovir (ACV) were used. In addition, the expression of Bcl-X(L), XIAP and Bax was studied in cells infected with HSV-1 and treated with pavine alkaloid (-)-thalimonine. Our previous work has demonstrated that (-)-thalimonine irreversibly inhibits the replication of wt HSV-1 in cultured cells. Our data showed that (-)-thalimonine down-regulates the expression of viral proteins U(L)17, VP11-12, VP22, VP24 and gamma1 34.5, and affects negatively the posttranslational processing of glycoproteins D (gD) and G (gG). As both gamma1 34.5 and glycoprotein D possess antiapoptotic activity, we investigated whether the antiviral effect of the alkaloid could also be due to its ability to suppress the antiapoptotic activity of the virus. Our results demonstrated that: (i) the virus induced overexpression of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-X(L) and XIAP; (ii) (-)-thalimonine reduced their overexpression, and (iii) this effect was stronger with the acyclovir resistant mutant R-100 than with the wt virus. Taken together, these data suggest that: (i) the virus abolishes apoptosis by means of virus-induced up-regulation of cell-specific prosurvival proteins Bcl-X(L) and XIAP, and (ii) (-)-thalimonine, apart from affecting essential viral targets, inhibits the infectious progeny production via restoration of apoptosis during viral replication.
Role of Omi/HtrA2 in apoptotic cell death after myocardial ischemia and reperfusion.	Omi/HtrA2 is a proapoptotic mitochondrial serine protease involved in caspase-dependent as well as caspase-independent cell death. However, the role of Omi/HtrA2 in the apoptotic cell death that occurs in vivo under pathological conditions remains unknown. The present study was designed to investigate whether Omi/HtrA2 plays an important role in postischemic myocardial apoptosis.
Non-peptidic small molecule inhibitors of XIAP.	Non-peptidic small molecule SMAC mimetics were designed and synthesized that bind to the BIR3 domain of XIAP using structure-based design. Substituted five-membered heterocycles such as thiazoles and imidazoles were identified that serve as replacements for peptide fragments of the lead.
Structure-based design, synthesis and biochemical testing of novel and potent Smac peptido-mimetics.	Structure-based design, chemical synthesis and biochemical testing of a series of novel Smac peptido-mimetics as inhibitors of XIAP protein are described. The most potent compound, 6j, has a binding affinity (K(i) value) of 24 nM to XIAP BIR3 protein and is 24 times more potent than the native Smac AVPI peptide. Further optimization of these potent Smac mimetics may ultimately lead to the development of a novel class of anticancer drugs for the treatment of human cancer by overcoming apoptosis-resistance of cancer cells through targeting the inhibitor of apoptosis proteins.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor have differential effects on neonatal and adult neutrophil survival and function.	Neutropenia is a common sequela of neonatal sepsis. Recent clinical trials have shown the beneficial effects of colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) on outcome in this group, but the exact mechanism remains unknown. Neonates and mothers who were at high-risk for infection were recruited for cord blood sampling in a university tertiary referral maternity hospital. Neonatal and adult neutrophils were evaluated for their ability to combat bacterial infection by examining their functional activity (CD11b and reactive oxygen intermediates) and their persistence at inflammatory sites (apoptosis). The mechanism for altered apoptotic responses was assessed by caspase activation assays, X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression, and cytosolic cytochrome c release. Although granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) significantly delayed neutrophil apoptosis in normal adults, only G-CSF had a similar effect in normal neonates. Neutrophils from neonates who are at high risk for infection are unresponsive to the antiapoptotic effects of G-CSF or GM-CSF, unlike maternal neutrophils, which have delayed apoptosis in response to GM-CSF. However, CD11b expression and reactive oxygen intermediate production were significantly increased in normal neonatal neutrophils that were incubated with GM-CSF versus controls but not G-CSF or lipopolysaccharide. Decreased cytosolic cytochrome c release and caspases 3 and 9 activity are associated with the CSF-mediated delay in apoptosis in adults but not in newborns. The antiapoptotic X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein is up-regulated in neonates compared with adults and may mediate their differential spontaneous apoptosis. These results have important implications for the use of CSFs in neonatal sepsis, as responses differ from those seen in adults. Further delineation of neonatal neutrophil responses to CSFs may improve their therapeutic potential.
The Sept4 septin locus is required for sperm terminal differentiation in mice.	The murine septin4 gene (Sept4) has been implicated in diverse cellular functions, including cytokinesis, apoptosis, and tumor suppression. Here, we investigated the function of Sept4 proteins during mouse development by creating a targeted deletion of the Sept4 genomic locus. Sept4 mutant mice are viable but male sterile due to immotile and structurally defective sperm. During spermatogenesis, Sept4 proteins were essential for proper mitochondrial architecture and establishment of the annulus, a ring-like structure in the tail region of sperm. In addition, Sept4 mutant sperm showed defects in the elimination of residual cytoplasm during sperm maturation and had increased staining for the caspase inhibitor XIAP. This is consistent with a role of the proapoptotic Sept4 protein ARTS in promoting caspase-mediated removal of cytoplasm via inhibition of XIAP. Our results indicate that Sept4 proteins play distinct but evolutionarily conserved functions in different cellular compartments.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis functions as ubiquitin ligase toward mature caspase-9 and cytosolic Smac/DIABLO.	Members of the IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) family function as anti-apoptotic proteins by binding directly to caspase-3, -7, and -9 to inhibit their activities. During apoptosis, the activities of IAPs are relieved by a second mitochondria-derived caspase activator, named Smac/DIABLO. Some IAPs have a C-terminal RING finger domain that has been identified as the essential motif for the activity of ubiquitin ligase (E3). Here we show that X-linked IAP (XIAP) mediates the polyubiquitination of caspase-9 and Smac. The large subunit of mature caspase-9 was polyubiquitinated by XIAP in vitro, while procaspase-9 was not. Furthermore, the polyubiquitinated form of caspase-9 accumulated in an XIAP-dependent manner in intact cells. The ubiquitination of caspase-9 was significantly inhibited in the presence of mature Smac, whereas XIAP was also found to promote the polyubiquitination of cytosolic Smac both in vitro and in intact cells. These ubiquitination reactions require the RING finger domain of XIAP. These findings suggest that XIAP functions as ubiquitin ligase toward mature caspase-9 and Smac to inhibit apoptosis.
2-Methoxyestradiol-induced apoptosis in human leukemia cells proceeds through a reactive oxygen species and Akt-dependent process.	The effects of 2-Methoxyestradiol (2ME)-induced apoptosis was examined in human leukemia cells (U937 and Jurkat) in relation to mitochondrial injury, oxidative damage, and perturbations in signaling pathways. 2ME induced apoptosis in these cells in a dose-dependent manner associated with release of mitochondrial proteins (cytochrome c, AIF), generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), downregulation of Mcl-1 and XIAP, and inactivation (dephosphorylation) of Akt accompanied by activation of JNK. In these cells, enforced activation of Akt by a constitutively active myristolated Akt construct prevented 2ME-mediated mitochondrial injury, XIAP and Mcl-1 downregulation, JNK activation, and apoptosis, but not ROS generation. Conversely, 2ME lethality was potentiated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002. Furthermore, in U937 cells, the hydrogen peroxide scavenger catalase and a superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic, TBAP, blocked these events, as well as Akt inactivation. Interruption of the JNK pathway by pharmacologic or genetic (e.g. siRNA) means attenuated 2ME-induced mitochondrial injury, XIAP and Mcl-1 downregulation, and apoptosis. Collectively, these findings suggest a hierarchical model of 2ME-related apoptosis induction in human leukemia cells in which 2ME-induced oxidative injury represents a primary event resulting in Akt inactivation, leading, in turn, to JNK activation, and culminating in XIAP and Mcl-1 downregulation, mitochondrial injury, and apoptosis. They also suggest that in human leukemia cells, the Akt pathway plays a critical role in mediating the response to oxidative stress induced by 2ME.
Tumour-suppression activity of the proapoptotic regulator Par4.	The proapoptotic protein encoded by Par4 (prostate apoptosis response 4) has been implicated in tumour suppression, particularly in the prostate. We report here that Par4-null mice are prone to develop tumours, both spontaneously and on carcinogenic treatment. The endometrium and prostate of Par4-null mice were particularly sensitive to the development of proliferative lesions. Most (80%) Par4-null females presented endometrial hyperplasia by 9 months of age, and a significant proportion (36%) developed endometrial adenocarcinomas after 1 year of age. Similarly, Par4-null males showed a high incidence of prostate hyperplasia and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasias, and were extraordinarily sensitive to testosterone-induced prostate hyperplasia. Finally, the uterus and prostate of young Par4-null mice have increased levels of the apoptosis inhibitor XIAP (X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis), supporting the previously proposed function of Par4 as an inhibitor of the (zeta)PKC (atypical protein kinase)-NF-(kappa)B (nuclear factor-(kappa)B)-XIAP pathway. These data show that Par4 has an important role in tumour suppression, with a particular relevance in the endometrium and prostate.
Apoptosis induction by a novel retinoid-related molecule requires nuclear factor-kappaB activation.	Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation has been shown to be both antiapoptotic and proapoptotic depending on the stimulus and the specific cell type involved. NF-kappaB activation has also been shown to be essential for apoptosis induction by a number of agents. The novel retinoid-related molecule 4-[3-Cl-(1-adamantyl)-4-hydroxyphenyl]-3-chlorocinnamic acid (3-Cl-AHPC) activates NF-kappaB with subsequent apoptosis in a number of cell types. We have found that NF-kappaB activation is essential for 3-Cl-AHPC-mediated apoptosis. 3-Cl-AHPC activates NF-kappaB through IKKalpha kinase activation and the subsequent degradation of IkappaB alpha. IKKalpha kinase activation is associated with IKKalpha-enhanced binding to HSP90. The HSP90 inhibitor geldanamycin enhances the degradation of IKKalpha and blocks 3-Cl-AHPC activation of NF-kappaB and 3-Cl-AHPC-mediated apoptosis. In addition, inhibition of IkappaB alpha degradation using a dominant-negative IkappaB alpha inhibits 3-Cl-AHPC-mediated apoptosis. NF-kappaB p65 activation is essential for 3-Cl-AHPC apoptosis induction as evidenced by the fact that inhibition of p65 activation utilizing the inhibitor helenalin or loss of p65 expression block 3-Cl-AHPC-mediated apoptosis. NF-kappaB has been shown to be antiapoptotic through its enhanced expression of a number of antiapoptotic proteins including X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), c-IAP1, and Bcl-X(L). Whereas exposure to 3-Cl-AHPC results in NF-kappaB activation, it inhibits the expression of XIAP, c-IAP1, and Bcl-X(L) and enhances the expression of proapoptotic molecules, including the death receptors DR4 and DR5 as well as Fas and Rip1. Thus, 3-Cl-AHPC, which is under preclinical development, has pleotrophic effects on malignant cells resulting in their apoptosis.
AKT mediates the pro-survival effects of KIT in ovarian cancer cells and is a determinant of sensitivity to imatinib mesylate.	Little is known about the function of KIT in ovarian cancer cells, despite its expression in most tumors and extensive speculation on the therapeutic value of its inhibition. This study investigated the consequences of KIT signaling on ovarian cancer cell proliferation and survival and evaluated the molecular basis of sensitivity to imatinib mesylate.
A conserved family of cellular genes related to the baculovirus iap gene and encoding apoptosis inhibitors.	The baculovirus inhibitor of apoptosis gene, iap, can impede cell death in insect cells. Here we show that iap can also prevent cell death in mammalian cells. The ability of iap to regulate programmed cell death in widely divergent species raised the possibility that cellular homologs of iap might exist. Consistent with this hypothesis, we have isolated Drosophila and human genes which encode IAP-like proteins (dILP and hILP). Like IAP, both dILP and hILP contain amino-terminal baculovirus IAP repeats (BIRs) and carboxy-terminal RING finger domains. Human ilp encodes a widely expressed cytoplasmic protein that can suppress apoptosis in transfected cells. An analysis of the expressed sequence tag database suggests that hilp is one of several human genes related to iap. Together these data suggest that iap and related cellular genes play an evolutionarily conserved role in the regulation of apoptosis.
IAP-family protein survivin inhibits caspase activity and apoptosis induced by Fas (CD95), Bax, caspases, and anticancer drugs.	Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family. We investigated the antiapoptotic mechanism of Survivin, as well as its expression in 60 human tumor cell lines used for the National Cancer Institute's anticancer drug screening program. In cotransfection experiments, cell death induced by Bax or Fas (CD 95) was partially inhibited (mean +/- SD, 65% +/- 8%) by Survivin, whereas XIAP, another IAP family member, almost completely blocked cell death (93% +/- 4%) under the same conditions. Survivin and XIAP also protected 293 cells from apoptosis induced by overexpression of procaspase-3 and -7 and inhibited the processing of these zymogens into active caspases. In vitro binding experiments indicated that, like other IAP-family proteins, Survivin binds specifically to the terminal effector cell death proteases, caspase-3 and -7, but not to the proximal initiator protease caspase-8. Using a cell-free system in which cytosolic extracts were derived from control- or Survivin-transfected cells and where caspases were activated either by addition of cytochrome c and dATP or by adding recombinant active caspase-8, Survivin was able to substantially reduce caspase activity, as measured by cleavage of a tetrapeptide substrate, AspGluValAsp-aminofluorocoumarin. Similar results were obtained in intact cells when Survivin was overexpressed by gene transfection and caspase activation was induced by the anticancer drug etoposide. Survivin was expressed in all 60 cancer cell lines analyzed, with highest levels in breast and lung cancers and lowest levels in renal cancers. These findings indicate that Survivin, which is commonly expressed in human tumor cell lines, can bind the effector cell death proteases caspase-3 and -7 in vitro and inhibits caspase activity and cell death in cells exposed to diverse apoptotic stimuli. Although quantitative differences may exist, these observations suggest commonality in the mechanisms used by IAP-family proteins to suppress apoptosis.
The Drosophila inhibitor of apoptosis D-IAP1 suppresses cell death induced by the caspase drICE.	Many members of the Inhibitor of Apoptosis (IAP) family inhibit cell death and existing data suggest at least two mechanisms of action. Drosophila IAPs (D-IAP1 and D-IAP2) and a baculovirus-derived IAP, Op-IAP, physically interact with and inhibit the anti-apoptotic activity of Reaper, HID, and Grim, three genetically defined inducers of apoptosis in Drosophila, while human IAPs, c-IAP1, c-IAP2, and X-IAP interact with a number of different proteins including specific members of the caspase family of cysteine proteases which are crucial in the execution of cell death. We have examined whether insect-active IAPs can inhibit apoptosis induced by selected caspases, Drosophila drICE, Sf-caspase-1, and mammalian caspase-3, in insect SF-21 cells. D-IAP1 inhibited apoptosis induced by the active forms of all three caspases tested and physically interacted with the active, but not the proform of drICE. MIHA, the mouse homolog of X-IAP and an effective inhibitor of caspase-3, also interacted with and blocked apoptosis induced by active drICE but was relatively ineffective in blocking Sf-caspase-1. Op-IAP and D-IAP2 were unable to inhibit effectively any of the active caspases tested and failed to interact with drICE. The Drosophila IAPs and Op-IAP, but not MIHA, blocked HID-initiated activation of pro-drICE. We conclude that D-IAP1 is capable of inhibiting the activation of drICE as well as inhibiting apoptosis induced by the active form of drICE. In contrast, D-IAP2 and Op-IAP are more limited in their inhibitory targets and may be limited to inhibiting the activation of caspases.
