Juvenile xanthogranuloma: a congenital giant form leading to a wide atrophic sequela.	Juvenile xanthogranuloma is the most common non-Langerhans cell histiocytosis of infancy and childhood. It is a benign disorder that usually regresses spontaneously, more often without or with limited skin changes. The clinical features are very pleomorphic and recognition of the atypical presentations should facilitate the diagnosis. We report a 9-month-old boy who had an extensive, atrophic lesion on the proximal thigh that followed the course of the congenital giant form. The large size of the lesion does not alter the clinical course or result in extracutaneous involvement, which remains rare. However, uncommon clinical presentations raise the problem of differential diagnosis, requiring biopsy to eliminate other tumors with a less favorable prognosis.
Relapsing, therapy refractory episcleritis, paraproteinemia and cutaneous-subcutaneous nodules on arm and hip: manifestations of a necrobiotic xanthogranuloma (NXG)]	Necrobiotic xanthogranuloma is a rare granulomatous disease featuring nodular, sometimes ulcerating, skin lesions in association with paraproteinemia and variable organ disease. Eye involvement manifests itself often as periorbital plaque-like infiltrates but also as chronic episcleritis, conjunctivitis, keratitis and scleritis.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis and juvenile xanthogranuloma. Two case reports.	Histiocytoses represent a large, puzzling group of diseases which may involve the skin and other organs. At present, juvenile xanthogranuloma is the disorder most often confused with Langerhans cell histiocytosis. A complex overlap exists between juvenile xanthogranuloma and Langerhans cell histiocytosis, with lesions showing clinical and/or pathological features of both disorders.
The evolution of Hodgkin's disease and necrobiotic xanthogranuloma syndrome.	We describe a woman in whom hypogammaglobulinemia and severe granulomatous cutaneous lesions had developed during childhood; subsequently, Hodgkin's disease and necrobiotic xanthogranuloma were diagnosed. This case illustrates an apparent association with disease activity and raises the question of a direct relationship of necrobiotic xanthogranuloma with lymphoproliferative disease.
An 'eruptive' variant of juvenile xanthogranuloma associated with langerhans cell histiocytosis.	The development of juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG) as a sequel to langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) treated with chemotherapy is rare and the hypothesis is intriguing. This is a case of a 19-year-old woman who presented with progressive development of tan-red papules on the axilla and eyelids over a 1.5-year time span. A biopsy of an axillary lesion showed a prominent dermal infiltrate of foamy histiocytoid cells with occasional Touton-type multinucleate giant cells, consistent with JXG. Three years later, the patient presented with additional similar papules on the axilla and vulva as well as a painful mass in the pelvic bone and diabetes insipidus with an associated pituitary mass. An iliac crest bone biopsy showed an eosinophil-rich infiltrate admixed with histiocytoid cells with reniform nuclei, which expressed S100 and CD1a, consistent with a diagnosis of LCH. Nonetheless, an additional axillary papule was once again consistent with JXG, with negative reaction for S100 and CD1a with no Birbeck granules by electron microscopy. This case is unique by the co-existing presentation of multiple cutaneous JXG lesions and internally confined LCH lesions without an apparently associated chemotherapy, corroborating the concept that JXG and LCH may share a common histogenesis.
Disseminated intracranial juvenile xanthogranulomatosis in a neonate without cutaneous lesions.	Juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG) is a rare disease that is part of a spectrum of histiocytic dendritic cell disorders. The authors report an unusual case of a 6-week-old male who presented with seizures. Neuroimaging revealed disseminated intracranial disease involving the optic apparatus, basal ganglia, lateral ventricles, and brainstem. The patient did not have any cutaneous lesions or evidence of extracranial disease. The patient underwent open biopsy of a large right midbrain lesion; pathology was consistent with JXG. He underwent postoperative chemotherapy and is doing well 7 months after surgery with regression of the intracranial lesions. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a neonate with disseminated intracranial JXG without cutaneous stigmata. 
Juvenile xanthogranuloma: an unusual cause of intratesticular mass in childhood.	Juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG) is a common histiocytic disorder of infancy and early childhood, most frequently presenting with cutaneous lesions. Whereas involvement of several visceral sites is well documented, only 4 cases of primary testicular JXG have been reported. Although this benign disorder typically presents with a favorable clinical outcome, the unusual presentation as an intratesticular lesion can lead to diagnostic challenges. In this study, we present the case of a 6-month-old male child with an incidentally discovered testicular mass that was diagnosed as a JXG and briefly review the existing literature in an attempt to bring awareness to this uncommon presentation.
Xanthomas in the Watson-Alagille syndrome.	The Watson-Alagille syndrome is a distinctive type of congenital cholestasis, in which hepatic ductular hypoplasia is associated with various ocular, bony, and cardiac anomalies, often with a characteristic facies. The prognosis is surprisingly good, and we present a 26-year-old woman with this syndrome in whom intense pruritus and xanthomatosis had been prominent during infancy but had subsequently cleared completely. The recognition of this syndrome in a young child with cholestatic jaundice may obviate the need for a diagnostic laparotomy.
Juvenile xanthogranuloma and acute leukemia: a case report.	Juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG) is a rare benign disease of the skin. It is seen in combination with juvenile chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia (JCML) and/or neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). The association with acute lymphoblastic leukemia is hardly mentioned in the literature. A case report of this rare combination is described and a review of the literature is given.
