Urate-null rosy mutants of Drosophila melanogaster are hypersensitive to oxygen stress.	It has been proposed that uric acid is an important scavenger of deleterious oxygen radicals in biological systems [Ames, B. N., Cathcart, R., Schwiers, E. & Hochstein, P. (1981) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78, 6858-6852]. We report here an in vivo investigation of the oxygen defense role of uric acid through an analysis of mutants of the rosy (ry) gene of Drosophila melanogaster. The ry gene is the structural gene for the molybdoenzyme, xanthine dehydrogenase; xanthine dehydrogenase-null ry mutants are therefore unable to synthesize urate. The rationale of our approach was to measure the response of urate-null ry mutants to extraordinary oxygen stress as imposed by exposure to radical-generating agents and as conferred by a genetic defect in superoxide dismutase, an established oxygen defense function. We show that urate-null mutants of the ry locus are hypersensitive to paraquat, ionizing radiation, and hyperoxia. Furthermore, compound mutants doubly deficient for uric acid and Cu/Zn-containing superoxide dismutase are synthetic lethals, which are unable to complete metamorphosis under normal growth conditions. These experiments demonstrate unambiguously the importance of urate in oxygen defense in vivo and support our earlier proposal that the molybdoenzyme genetic system plays a critical role in oxygen defense in Drosophila. They also form the basis for our proposal that metamorphosis in Drosophila imposes a crisis of oxygen stress on the developing imago against which uric acid plays an important organ-specific defense. Finally, the results provide a basis for understanding the syndrome of phenotypes, including the hallmark dull brown eye color, which characterizes mutants of this classic genetic system of Drosophila.
Tandem orientation of duplicated xanthine dehydrogenase genes from Arabidopsis thaliana: differential gene expression and enzyme activities.	Xanthine dehydrogenase from the plant Arabidopsis thaliana was analyzed on molecular and biochemical levels. Whereas most other organisms appear to own only one gene for xanthine dehydrogenase A. thaliana possesses two genes in tandem orientation spaced by 704 base pairs. The cDNAs as well as the proteins AtXDH1 and AtXDH2 share an overall identity of 93% and show high homologies to xanthine dehydrogenases from other organisms. Whereas AtXDH2 mRNA is expressed constitutively, alterations of AtXDH1 transcript levels were observed at various stresses like drought, salinity, cold, and natural senescence, but also after abscisic acid treatment. Transcript alteration did not mandatorily result in changes of xanthine dehydrogenase activities. Whereas salt treatment had no effect on xanthine dehydrogenase activities, cold stress caused a decrease, but desiccation and senescence caused a strong increase of activities in leaves. Because AtXDH1 presumably is the more important isoenzyme in A. thaliana it was expressed in Pichia pastoris, purified, and used for biochemical studies. AtXDH1 protein is a homodimer of about 300 kDa consisting of identical subunits of 150 kDa. Like xanthine dehydrogenases from other organisms AtXDH1 uses hypoxanthine and xanthine as main substrates and is strongly inhibited by allopurinol. AtXDH1 could be activated by the purified molybdenum cofactor sulfurase ABA3 that converts inactive desulfo-into active sulfoenzymes. Finally it was found that AtXDH1 is a strict dehydrogenase and not an oxidase, but is able to produce superoxide radicals indicating that besides purine catabolism it might also be involved in response to various stresses that require reactive oxygen species.
Xanthinuria type I: a rare cause of urolithiasis.	Xanthinuria type I is a rare disorder of purine metabolism caused by xanthine oxidoreductase or dehydrogenase (XDH) deficiency. We report a family with two affected children out of 335 pediatric stone patients studied since 1991 in Armenia. The propositus, a 13-month-old boy, presented with abdominal pain and urinary retention followed by stone passage (0.9x0.6 cm). Infrared spectroscopy in Yerevan revealed a pure xanthine stone. Family examination in the parents and brother was normal, but the propositus and his 8-year-old asymptomatic sister had hypouricemia, hypouricosuria, and high urinary excretion of hypoxanthine and xanthine. Ultrasonography in the index patient showed bilateral stones requiring pyelolithotomy. High fluid intake and purine restriction did not prevent further stone passages. The affected asymptomatic sister had a small pelvic stone (4 mm). Mutation analysis revealed a heterozygous novel base pair substitution in exon 25 of the XDH gene (c.2810C>T), resulting in an amino acid substitution (p.Thr910Met). The second mutation could not be detected. Despite this, the heterozygous mutation, the chemical findings, and the positive allopurinol test altogether prove xanthinuria type I, which may present wide clinical intrafamilial variation. Diagnosis is suspected usually from low serum uric acid. No specific therapy is available.
Genetic studies of a cluster of acute lymphoblastic leukemia cases in Churchill County, Nevada.	In a study to identify exposures associated with 15 cases of childhood leukemia, we found levels of tungsten, arsenic, and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene in participants to be higher than mean values reported in the National Report on Human Exposure to Environmental Chemicals. Because case and comparison families had similar levels of these contaminants, we conducted genetic studies to identify gene polymorphisms that might have made case children more susceptible than comparison children to effects of the exposures.
Untargeted plasma metabolite profiling reveals the broad systemic consequences of xanthine oxidoreductase inactivation in mice.	A major challenge in systems biology is integration of molecular findings for individual enzyme activities into a cohesive high-level understanding of cellular metabolism and physiology/pathophysiology. However, meaningful prediction for how a perturbed enzyme activity will globally impact metabolism in a cell, tissue or intact organisms is precluded by multiple unknowns, including in vivo enzymatic rates, subcellular distribution and pathway interactions. To address this challenge, metabolomics offers the potential to simultaneously survey changes in thousands of structurally diverse metabolites within complex biological matrices. The present study assessed the capability of untargeted plasma metabolite profiling to discover systemic changes arising from inactivation of xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR), an enzyme that catalyzes the final steps in purine degradation. Using LC-MS coupled with a multivariate statistical data analysis platform, we confidently surveyed >3,700 plasma metabolites (50-1,000 Da) for differential expression in XOR wildtype vs. mice with inactivated XOR, arising from gene deletion or pharmacological inhibition. Results confirmed the predicted derangements in purine metabolism, but also revealed unanticipated perturbations in metabolism of pyrimidines, nicotinamides, tryptophan, phospholipids, Krebs and urea cycles, and revealed kidney dysfunction biomarkers. Histochemical studies confirmed and characterized kidney failure in xor-nullizygous mice. These findings provide new insight into XOR functions and demonstrate the power of untargeted metabolite profiling for systemic discovery of direct and indirect consequences of gene mutations and drug treatments.
Molybdenum hydroxylases in Drosophila. III. Further characterization of the low xanthine dehydrogenase gene.	The biochemical effects of several newly induced low xanthine dehydrogenase (lxd) mutations in Drosophila melanogaster were investigated. When homozygous, all lxd alleles simultaneously interrupt each of the molybdoenzyme activities to approximately the same levels: xanthine dehydrogenase, 25%; aldehyde oxidase, 12%; pyridoxal oxidase, 0%; and sulfite oxidase, 2% as compared to the wild type. In order to evaluate potentially small complementation or dosage effects, mutant stains were made coisogenic for 3R. These enzymes require a molybdenum cofactor, and lxd cofactor levels are also reduced to less than 10% of the wild type. These low levels of molybdoenzyme activities and cofactor activity are maintained throughout development from late larval to adult stages. The lxd alleles exhibit a dosage-dependent effect on molybdoenzyme activities, indicating that these mutants are leaky for wild-type function. In addition, cofactor activity is dependent upon the number of lxd+ genes present. The lxd mutation results in the production of more thermolabile XDH and AO enzyme activities, but this thermolability is not transferred with the cofactor to a reconstituted Neurospora molybdoenzyme. The lxd gene is localized to salivary region 68A4-9, 0.1 map unit distal to the superoxide dismutase (Sod) gene.
Xanthine Dehydrogenase (XDH) cross-reacting material in mutants of Drosophila melanogaster deficient in XDH activity.	Rocket immunoelectrophoresis was used to estimate xanthine dehydrogenase cross-reacting material (XDH-CRM) in strains containing the cin and cin mutant genes, which are deficient in XDH enzymatic activity. CRM levels were determined as percentages of CRM in the Oregon-R wild-type strain. The mutant strains contain 72 and 76% of Oregon-R CRM, respectively. CRM levels in strains containing the XDH-deficient mutant genes lxd and mal are 93 and 105%, respectively. The high levels of CRM in these four mutant strains indicate that the primary effects of the mutant genes are on the function of XDH protein rather than its accumulation.
The control of aldehyde oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activities and CRM levels by the mal locus in Drosophila melanogaster.	The effects of five new mal alleles on aldehyde oxidase (AO) and xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) activities and CRM levels in Drosophila melanogaster are described. These alleles were isolated by taking full advantage of the pleiotropic phenotype exhibited by all previously described mal alleles and represent at least three unique examples of mal function. Al least one of these alleles is a representative of a new complementation group. Two other alleles exhibit a wild-type eye color in homozygous stock and one of these is "leaky", exhibiting some 50% of the XDH activity normally found in Oregon-R control flies and some 12% of the AO activity. CRM and activity levels have been quantitated for both enzymes in all allelic heterozygotes. XDH-CRM levels vary only slightly around wild-type levels while AO-CRM levels appear much more sensitive to mutational alterations.
Composite stepwise mutation model under the neutral mutation hypothesis.	As an extension of the conventional ("Ohta-Kimura") stepwise mutation model, a new model is proposed. In this model, it is assumed that each charge state ("electromorph") is represented by K alleles and that a mutation changes an allele either by one step in the charge space or to one of the other members of the identical electromorph. It is shown that the net genetic variability within a population is similar to that predicted by the infinite-allele model ("Kimura-Crow" model) rather than to that predicted by the stepwise mutation model, and the K-dependence of genetic variability is rather weak when K greater than or equal to 2 and the effective population size is not much greater than the reciprocal of mutation rate. The results are compared with the recent observations at the xanthine dehydrogenase locus in Drosophila pseudoobscura.
Genetic control of aldehyde oxidase activity and cross-reacting-material in Drosophila melanogaster.	Four different genes are known to affect aldehyde oxidase activity (AO) in Drosophila melanogaster. Mutants at each of these loci eliminate AO activity and simultaneously eliminate detectable AO-crossing reacting material (AO-CRM) even though only one is the structural gene for AO (Aldoxn). The other three genes (cin1, lxd and mal) coordinately "control" the levels of activity of AO and two related enzymes, xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) and pyridoxal oxidase (PO). Contrary to their effects on AO-CRM, neither of these three mutants eliminate XDH-CRM. A model of interaction of these enzymes and genes controlling their activities is discussed.
