Ornithine decarboxylase gene (CaODC1) is specifically induced during TMV-mediated but salicylate-independent resistant response in hot pepper.	A gene encoding putative ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) has been isolated by differential screening of a cDNA library from the resistant hot pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) inoculated with avirulent tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) pathotype P0. In hot pepper plants, transcripts of the CaODC1 (C. annuum ODC1) gene started to accumulate at 24 h post-inoculation of TMV-P0 and the signal was spread systemically. The transcript level of CaODC1 was increased rapidly in a hot pepper resistant to Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria (Xcv) but not in a susceptible hot pepper after inoculation. These results suggest possible role(s) for CaODC1 in plant defense against a broad range of pathogens including viruses and bacteria.
Endocytosis of Xanthomonas campestris pathovar campestris lipopolysaccharides in non-host plant cells of Nicotiana tabacum.	The specific recognition of phytopathogenic bacteria by plant cells is generally mediated by a number of signal molecules. The elicitor-active lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of the phytopathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (X.c.c) are recognized by its non-host plant Nicotiana tabacum (N.t.). This LPS was purified and labelled with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) for monitoring the fate of these signal molecules in intact plant cells of tobacco. In this study we were able to show that the so-labelled LPS rapidly bound to the cell wall and was then internalized into the cells in a temperature- and energy-dependent way. This uptake of LPS could be outcompeted by the addition of an excess of unlabelled LPS. Furthermore, it was blocked by amantadine, an inhibitor of receptor-mediated endocytosis of mammalian cells. Immunolocalization experiments showed for the first time a significant co-localization of the LPS-elicitor with endosomal structures using an anti-Ara6 antibody. These observations suggest specific endocytosis of LPS(X.c.c.) into tobacco cells. The possibility for a receptor-mediated endocytosis comparable to the mammalian system will be discussed.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis is accompanied by local and systemic alterations in gene expression and an increase in disease resistance in the shoots.	In natural ecosystems, the roots of many plants exist in association with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, and the resulting symbiosis has profound effects on the plant. The most frequently documented response is an increase in phosphorus nutrition; however, other effects have been noted, including increased resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses. Here we used a 16,000-feature oligonucleotide array and real-time quantitative RT-PCR to explore transcriptional changes triggered in Medicago truncatula roots and shoots as a result of AM symbiosis. By controlling the experimental conditions, phosphorus-related effects were minimized, and both local and systemic transcriptional responses to the AM fungus were revealed. The transcriptional response of the roots and shoots differed in both the magnitude of gene induction and the predicted functional categories of the mycorrhiza-regulated genes. In the roots, genes regulated in response to three different AM fungi were identified, and, through split-root experiments, an additional layer of regulation, in the colonized or non-colonized sections of the mycorrhizal root system, was uncovered. Transcript profiles of the shoots of mycorrhizal plants indicated the systemic induction of many genes predicted to be involved in stress or defense responses, and suggested that mycorrhizal plants might display enhanced disease resistance. Experimental evidence supports this prediction, and mycorrhizal M. truncatula plants showed increased resistance to a virulent bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas campestris. Thus, the symbiosis is accompanied by a complex pattern of local and systemic changes in gene expression, including the induction of a functional defense response.
Involvement of the pepper antimicrobial protein CaAMP1 gene in broad spectrum disease resistance.	Pathogen-inducible antimicrobial defense-related proteins have emerged as key antibiotic peptides and enzymes involved in disease resistance in plants. A novel antimicrobial protein gene, CaAMP1 (for Capsicum annuum ANTIMICROBIAL PROTEIN1), was isolated from pepper (C. annuum) leaves infected with Xanthomonas campestris pv vesicatoria. Expression of the CaAMP1 gene was strongly induced in pepper leaves not only during pathogen infection but also after exposure to abiotic elicitors. The purified recombinant CaAMP1 protein possessed broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity against phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi. CaAMP1:smGFP fusion protein was localized mainly in the external and intercellular regions of onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. The virus-induced gene silencing technique and gain-of-function transgenic plants were used to determine the CaAMP1 gene function in plant defense. Silencing of CaAMP1 led to enhanced susceptibility to X. campestris pv vesicatoria and Colletotrichum coccodes infection, accompanied by reduced PATHOGENESIS-RELATED (PR) gene expression. In contrast, overexpression of CaAMP1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) conferred broad-spectrum resistance to the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato, the biotrophic oomycete Hyaloperonospora parasitica, and the fungal necrotrophic pathogens Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. matthiolae and Alternaria brassicicola. CaAMP1 overexpression induced the salicylic acid pathway-dependent genes PR1 and PR5 but not the jasmonic acid-dependent defense gene PDF1.2 during P. syringae pv tomato infection. Together, these results suggest that the antimicrobial CaAMP1 protein is involved in broad-spectrum resistance to bacterial and fungal pathogen infection.
Requirement of the cytosolic interaction between PATHOGENESIS-RELATED PROTEIN10 and LEUCINE-RICH REPEAT PROTEIN1 for cell death and defense signaling in pepper.	Plants recruit innate immune receptors such as leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins to recognize pathogen attack and activate defense genes. Here, we identified the pepper (Capsicum annuum) pathogenesis-related protein10 (PR10) as a leucine-rich repeat protein1 (LRR1)-interacting partner. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation and coimmunoprecipitation assays confirmed the specific interaction between LRR1 and PR10 in planta. Avirulent Xanthomonas campestris pv vesicatoria infection induces PR10 expression associated with the hypersensitive cell death response. Transient expression of PR10 triggers hypersensitive cell death in pepper and Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, which is amplified by LRR1 coexpression as a positive regulator. LRR1 promotes the ribonuclease activity and phosphorylation of PR10, leading to enhanced cell death signaling. The LRR1-PR10 complex is formed in the cytoplasm, resulting in its secretion into the apoplastic space. Engineered nuclear confinement of both proteins revealed that the cytoplasmic localization of the PR10-LRR1 complex is essential for cell death-mediated defense signaling. PR10/LRR1 silencing in pepper compromises resistance to avirulent X. campestris pv vesicatoria infection. By contrast, PR10/LRR1 overexpression in Arabidopsis thaliana confers enhanced resistance to Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato and Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis. Together, these results suggest that the cytosolic LRR-PR10 complex is responsible for cell death-mediated defense signaling.
