Antagonism of adenosine A(1) receptors in the NTS does not affect the chemoreflex in awake rats.	The possible involvement of adenosine A(1) receptors in neurotransmission of the sympathoexcitatory component of the chemoreflex in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of awake rats was evaluated. Unilateral microinjection of increasing doses of adenosine (0.01, 0.06, 0.12, 1.25, 2.5, and 5.0 nmol/50 nl) into the lateral aspect of the commissural NTS produced a long-lasting increase in baseline mean arterial pressure (MAP) and no changes in baseline heart rate (HR). Microinjection of adenosine at 1.25 nmol/50 nl (ED(50)) into the NTS (n = 9) produced a significant increase in baseline MAP (119 +/- 3, 122 +/- 4, and 117 +/- 4 mmHg at 30 s, 1 min, and 2 min, respectively) compared with control (102 +/- 3 mmHg) but no significant changes after previous microinjection of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), an adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist (107 +/- 3, 107 +/- 3, and 106 +/- 3 mmHg at 30 s, 1 min, and 2 min, respectively) compared with control (102 +/- 3 mmHg). Microinjection of adenosine before and after DPCPX into the same site of the lateral commissural NTS produced no changes in baseline HR. In another group of rats (n = 8), microinjection of DPCPX (0.285 nmol/50 nl) into lateral and midline aspects of the commissural NTS produced no significant changes in pressor (+46 +/- 4 vs. +47 +/- 2 mmHg) or bradycardic responses (-216 +/- 9 vs. -226 +/- 12 beats/min) to chemoreflex activation with intravenous potassium cyanide compared with control responses. These data show that microinjection of adenosine into the NTS produced a small and long-lasting pressor response by activating A(1) receptors and that blockade of these receptors produced no changes in cardiovascular responses to chemoreflex activation. We conclude that adenosine A(1) receptors are not involved in processing of the chemoreflex afferents at the NTS level.
Preclinical studies on [11C]TMSX for mapping adenosine A2A receptors by positron emission tomography.	In previous in vivo studies with mice, rats and monkeys, we have demonstrated that [11C]TMSX ([7-methyl-11C]-(E)-8-(3,4,5-trimethoxystyryl)-1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is a potential radioligand for mapping adenosine A2A receptors of the brain by positron emission tomography (PET). In the present study, we performed a preclinical study. A suitable preparation method for [11C]TMSX injection was established. The radiation absorbed-dose by [11C]TMSX in humans estimated from the tissue distribution in mice was low enough for clinical use, and the acute toxicity and mutagenicity of TMSX were not found. The striatal uptake of [11C]TMSX in mice was reduced by pretreatment with theophylline at the dose of 10 and 100 mg/kg, suggesting that the [11C]TMSX PET should be carefully performed in the patients received with theophylline. We have concluded that [11C]TMSX is suitable for mapping adenosine A2A receptors in the human brain by PET.
Anti-inflammatory pharmacotherapy for wheezing in preschool children.	Accumulating evidence indicates that there are at least two phenotypes of wheezing in preschool years with distinct natural history. Frequent wheezing in the first 3 years of life with risk factors for asthma (e.g., eczema, maternal asthma) predicts symptoms in older age, while infrequent viral-associated wheezing without risk factors for asthma has a benign prognosis. This systematic review summarizes evidence on the use of anti-inflammatory medications in preschool children with wheezing. Literature search was performed using Medline and the Cochrane Library. Retrieved articles were critically appraised. Episodic use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (>1,600 mcg/day of beclomethasone) may ameliorate severity of intermittent viral-associated wheezing. Maintenance inhaled corticosteroids can control symptoms in children with frequent wheezing associated with risk factors for asthma. Inhaled corticosteroids do not alter the natural history of wheezing even when started early in life and could have a negative impact on linear growth rate. Short courses of oral corticosteroids have been proposed as an effective measure to control exacerbations of symptoms although there is little evidence supporting their use. Some studies support the administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (leukotriene pathway modifiers, cromones, methylxanthines) for mild frequent wheezing. Maintenance inhaled corticosteroids is the most effective measure for controlling frequent wheezing in preschool children, especially when accompanied by risk factors for asthma. This treatment does not affect the natural history of wheezing, although deceleration of linear growth rate is the most commonly recognized systemic adverse effect.
A novel osteogenic helioxanthin-derivative acts in a BMP-dependent manner.	To effectively treat serious bone defects using bone regenerative medicine, there is a need for the development of a small chemical compound that potently induces bone formation. We now report a novel osteogenic helioxanthin-derivative, TH. TH induced osteogenic differentiation in MC3T3-E1 cells, mouse primary osteoblasts, and mouse embryonic stem cells. The combination of TH and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 2 induced the mRNA expression of osteoblast marker genes and calcification in primary fibroblasts. The TH induced the mRNA of the inhibitor of DNA-binding 1 (Id-1), and its osteogenic effect was inhibited by Smad6 or Noggin. Furthermore, TH induced the mRNA expression of Bmp4 and Bmp6. These data suggest that TH exerts its potent osteogenic effect in a BMP-dependent manner by enhancing the effects of the existing BMPs and/or increasing the expression of Bmp4 and Bmp6. TH may help establish a more efficient bone regeneration system.
Effects of interleukin-1beta on spinal cord nociceptive transmission in intact and propentofylline-treated rats.	To investigate the contribution of glial cells in the spinal cord nociceptive transmission, the effect of intrathecally administered interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) was studied in rats treated with the glial cell inactivator propentofylline and submitted to a C-fiber-mediated reflex paradigm evoked by single and repetitive (wind-up) electric stimulation. Intrathecal IL-1beta did not modify the C reflex integrated activity in either group of animals, while producing increased wind-up in intact and decreased wind-up in propentofylline pre-treated rats. Results suggest that the excitatory effect of IL-1beta on spinal wind-up activity in healthy rats is produced by a glial mediator, whereas the inhibitory effect resulted from a direct effect of the cytokine on dorsal horn neurons.
The PROTECT pilot study: a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-finding study of the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist rolofylline in patients with acute heart failure and renal impairment.	Rolofylline, an adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, facilitates diuresis and preserves renal function in patients with acute heart failure (AHF) with renal impairment. Although not powered around any specific hypothesis, this pilot study was designed to identify an efficacious dose while refining inclusion criteria and end points.
Chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity studies of cocoa powder in rats.	Cocoa powder (CP) was fed at levels of 0.0 (control), 1.5, 3.5 and 5.0% for 104 wk to male and female Sprague-Dawley rats derived from the F3b generation of a multigeneration study using the same CP diets. Initial methylxanthine intake was high in all treatment groups, but steadily declined until wk 26. The high dose level provided a mean methylxanthine intake of approximately 57 mg/kg body weight/day for males and 74 mg/kg body weight/day for females from wk 26 to wk 104 of the study. Compared with controls, the historical trend of methylxanthine-associated growth stimulation was evident in rats consuming diets containing 1.5% CP, while body weight was reduced in rats consuming diets containing 3.5 and 5.0% CP. Survival rates were similar in control and CP-fed rats. No evidence of treatment-related clinical disease or ocular effects was noted. An increased incidence of bilateral testicular atrophy and aspermatogenesis was present in males consuming diets containing 5.0% CP. Non-suppurative myocarditis and interstitial fibrosis of the heart were also increased in incidence in both sexes receiving diets containing 5.0% CP. The overall incidences of both pelvic dilatation and renal pelvic microcalculi were increased in most treatment groups. Although there was no difference in the incidence of benign mammary gland fibroadenomas in female rats between the control group and any CP-fed group, a marginally significant (P = 0.04) trend test was apparent. The significance of this finding is doubtful, since the incidence of this lesion in the highest dose group was well within the historical control range for this strain of rats. No evidence of carcinogenicity from dietary CP was found in either sex.
Role of adenosine in functional hyperemia in skeletal muscle as indicated by pharmacological tools.	The hypothesis that adenosine mediates blood flow increments in contracting skeletal muscle was evaluated by intravital microscopy of the microcirculation in the tenuissimus muscle of anesthetized rabbits. Motor nerve stimulation elicited muscle contractions and frequency-dependent arteriolar dilatation, particularly in terminal arterioles. The pulse duration (0.05 ms) and voltage (1.5-5 V) precluded activation of vasoconstrictor fibers, as also indicated by the lack of effect of phentolamine on resting vascular tone and on the hyperemic response to nerve stimulation. The specific adenosine receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-p-sulfo-phenylxanthine (DPSPX; 10(-5) M), attenuated the hyperemic response to muscle contractions. The adenosine uptake inhibitor dipyridamole (10(-8)-10(-6) M) dose-dependently dilated microvessels, an effect prevented by DPSPX (10(-5) M). Moreover, dipyridamole (10(-7) M) augmented contraction-induced hyperemia. The enhancement by dipyridamole was reversed by DPSPX (10(-5) M). The effects of adenosine uptake inhibitor and antagonist were invariably more marked in terminal than in transverse arterioles, and also more pronounced at higher stimulation frequencies. Motor nerve stimulation failed to induce alterations in vascular diameters when the neuromuscular junction was blocked by pancuronium. Thus, our observations indicate that functional hyperemia after motor nerve-induced contractions of the skeletal muscle was of postjunctional origin. Apparently, activation of adenosine receptors was responsible for a part of the evoked vasodilation.
Involvement of ATP in noxious stimulus-evoked release of glutamate in rat medullary dorsal horn: a microdialysis study.	Our electrophysiological studies have shown that both purinergic and glutamatergic receptors are involved in central sensitization of nociceptive neurons in the medullary dorsal horn (MDH). Here we assessed the effects of intrathecal administration of apyrase (a nucleotide degrading enzyme of endogenous adenosine 5-triphosphate [ATP]), a combination of apyrase and 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist), or 2,3-O-2,4,6-trinitrophenyl-adenosine triphosphate (TNP-ATP, a P2X1, P2X3, P2X2/3 receptor antagonist) on the release of glutamate in the rat MDH evoked by application of mustard oil (MO) to the molar tooth pulp. In vivo microdialysis was used to dialyse the MDH every 5 min, and included 3 basal samples, 6 samples after drug treatment and 12 samples following application of MO. Tooth pulp application of MO induced a significant increase in glutamate release in the MDH. Superfusion of apyrase or TNP-ATP alone significantly reduced the MO-induced glutamate release in the MDH, as compared to vehicle. Furthermore, the suppressive effects of apyrase on glutamate release were reduced by combining it with DPCPX. This study demonstrates that application of an inflammatory irritant to the tooth pulp induces glutamate release in the rat MDH in vivo that may be reduced by processes involving endogenous ATP and adenosine.
Transfer of enprofylline into breast milk.	Enprofylline concentrations were measured on 3 consecutive days in milk and plasma from six nursing mothers who were treated twice daily with 150-mg enprofylline slow-release tablets. The mean plasma concentration was 0.89 mg/L and the mean milk concentration was 0.71 mg/L, the average milk/plasma ratio being 0.80. The mean milk/plasma ratio ranged from 0.67 to 0.98 in the six mothers. It was estimated that a maximum of approximately 10% of an adult dose of enprofylline, on a per-kilogram body-weight basis, may be transferred to the suckling infant.
Evaluation of ketotifen in the prophylactic treatment of bronchial asthma in children.	The usefulness of ketotifen for reducing bronchial hypperreactivity, acting as a prophylactic drug, was studied in children with extrinsic asthma. In an open-label phase (phase A), 2.267 asthmatic children received ketotifen orally at a dosage of 1 mg twice daily for three months. Another study, double-blind, placebo-controlled (phase B), enrolled 75 children (38 ketotifen; 37 placebo); they received the same dosage of ketotifen or placebo for five months, after a one-month placebo baseline control period. A progressive improvement in the severity of asthmatic attacks was seen throughout the three-month period (phase A). At the end of the trial, the percentage of patients with moderate or intense attacks was reduced from 77% at baseline to 18%. Significant reductions were noted in the duration and frequency of asthma attacks at each monthly evaluation. The need for the use of symptomatic medication declined significantly during the 3-month trial. In the five-month, double-blind, placebo--controlled study (phase B), significant reduction in the frequency of dyspnea was noted at the end of the trial; in the placebo group, this frequency increased. This clinical observation was confirmed by the mean consumption of sympathomatic drugs during the five-month treatment period: it declined in the ketotifen--treated patients but increased in those who received placebo. The low incidence side effects attests to the safety of ketotifen in children. Our results demonstrate that ketotifen is both safe and effective for prophylactic use in asthmatic children.
Additive bronchodilator effects of terbutaline and enprofylline in asthma.	Enprofylline is a novel xanthine derivative with negligible adenosine antagonizing ability. It is eliminated almost exclusively by renal clearance with a half-life of about 2 h. Three i.v. infusions of enprofylline (1 mg/kg body weight over 10 min) were given at hourly intervals to 16 patients with stable, reversible airway obstruction. The patients were pretreated at random with i.v. terbutaline (4 micrograms/kg body weight) or placebo according to a double blind cross-over design. Lung function and drug concentrations in plasma were followed. Enprofylline produced significant and concentration-dependent bronchodilation between plasma levels of 1.24 and 3.22 mg/l. The improvement in ventilatory function was significantly enhanced by terbutaline pretreatment. At the highest plasma levels of enprofylline nausea and headache were found as subjective side effects. The results suggest that enprofylline and terbutaline might best be used in a low dose combination in the treatment of bronchial asthma.
Pharmacokinetics of enprofylline in healthy elderly subjects.	The pharmacokinetics of enprofylline, a new potent antiasthmatic, has been studied in 20 healthy, elderly subjects, aged 65 to 81 years, and in 7 young adult controls, aged 23 to 37 years. The dose of 1 mg/kg body weight was given as an i.v. infusion. Plasma levels of enprofylline were followed for about 7 h and urine levels for 24 h. Both groups eliminated the major portion of the dose (about 83%) by renal excretion. As expected the mean creatinine clearance (92.5 ml X min-1 X 1.73 m-2) was moderately decreased in the elderly subjects. The total clearance of enprofylline was 0.16 l X h-1 X kg-1 and the renal clearance was 0.13 l X h-1 X kg-1, which was significantly lower than that in the young controls (0.28 and 0.22 l X h-1 X kg-1) respectively. Thus, the enprofylline clearance had fallen relatively more (about 40%) than the decrease in creatinine clearance (about 20%) with age. The half-life of enprofylline in old age was 2.5 h, which was significantly longer than in the younger adults (1.8 h). It is concluded that the pharmacokinetics of enprofylline was significantly influenced by advanced age, mainly due to reduced renal excretion. This reduction was more pronounced than anticipated from the age-dependent decline in creatinine clearance.
Determination of a new antibronchospastic agent, MX2/120, in guinea pig plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography in a pharmacokinetic study.	7-[(2,2-Dimethyl)propyl)]-1-methylxanthine (I, Lab code MX2/120) is a new potent antibronchospastic agent. A rapid and simple HPLC assay for I in guinea pig plasma has been developed. Compound I was extracted from plasma with dichloromethane by a solid-phase extraction procedure, after adding 1,3-dimethyl-7-pentylxanthine at a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml as the internal standard (I.S.). The extraction residue was redissolved in water-acetonitrile and chromatographed on a RP-18 reversed-phase column. The eluate was monitored by spectrophotometric detection at 280 nm. The method showed good linearity over the range 0.1-20 micrograms/ml (r = 0.9998) and is precise (C.V. x Student's t-test = 1.84%) and accurate (mean recovery +/- limit of confidence = 100.25 +/- 0.34). The HPLC assay was successfully applied to the determination of the pharmacokinetic profile of I after intravenous and oral administration in guinea pigs. The main pharmacokinetic parameters are presented.
'Therapeutic window's for multiple drug treatment of experimental cerebral ischemia in gerbils.	The effects of the following drugs: nimodipine (1 mg/kg b.w., i.p.), 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (4 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) and propentofylline (25 mg/kg b.w., i.p.), administered (alone or in combination) at the end of 15 min bilateral ischemia in gerbils were evaluated on mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione reductase (GR), glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), monoamine oxidase (MAO) activities, and thiobarbituric acid reactive material (TBARM), and brain water content at 1 hour of reperfusion. The combined treatment virtually abolished early postischemic brain edema (4.1% v.s. 0.6%) and efficiently counteracted ischemia-induced changes [decreased SOD (79% v.s. 98%), GR (52% v.s. 105%) and MAO (25% v.s. 79%), and increased TBARM (198% v.s. 108%)]. The same combination of drugs administered 15 min before ischemia had a similar effect (e.g., reduced brain swelling and lipid peroxidation) as when given at the end of ischemia, whereas a limited or absent impact was seen when the drugs were given 15 min or 1 hour after ischemia, respectively. The data suggest that (post)ischemic brain swelling and mitochondrial dysfunction can be reduced by drugs which synchronously prevent processes induced in the early stages of reperfusion.
Effects of N6-cyclopentyl adenosine and 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine on N-methyl-D-aspartate induced seizures in mice.	The effect of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (CPX) on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked seizures was studied in C57BL/6 mice (20/group). Animals were injected i.p. either with CPA (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg) or CPX (1, 2 mg/kg) 15 min prior to administration of NMDA (30, 60, 125 mg/kg). Administration of NMDA alone resulted in a complete locomotor arrest at 30 mg/kg, while clonic/tonic seizures and progressively increasing mortality were seen at higher doses. Prior administration of CPA resulted either in a delay of seizure onset and unchanged mortality (0.5 mg/kg CPA, 60 mg/kg NMDA) or in elimination of tonic episodes and a significant reduction in postictal mortality (1, 2 mg/kg CPA; 60, 125 mg/kg NMDA). Pretreatment with CPX at either 1 or 2 mg/kg eliminated locomotor depression in animals injected with NMDA at 30 mg/kg. At 60 mg/kg NMDA, the effect of CPX administration resulted in mortality equivalent to that seen with 125 mg/kg NMDA administered alone. The results indicate that A1 receptor agonists may protect against NMDA-evoked seizures and that the adenosine A1 receptor may be directly involved in these actions.
Systemic effects of screening for retinopathy of prematurity.	To detect systemic complications of screening for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), paying particular attention to the physical examination.
