Inhibition of human mast cell activation with the novel selective adenosine A(2B) receptor antagonist 3-isobutyl-8-pyrrolidinoxanthine (IPDX)(2).	The antiasthmatic drug enprofylline was the first known selective, though not potent, A(2B) antagonist. On the basis of structure-activity relationships (SARs) of xanthine derivatives, we designed a novel selective adenosine A(2B) receptor antagonist, 3-isobutyl-8-pyrrolidinoxanthine (IPDX), with potency greater than that of enprofylline. IPDX displaced [3H]ZM241385 ([3H]4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a]-[1,3,5]triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol) from human A(2B) adenosine receptors with a K(i) value of 470 +/- 2 nM and inhibited A(2B)-dependent cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells with a K(B) value of 625 +/- 71 nM. We found that IPDX was more selective than enprofylline toward human A(2B) receptors. It was 38-, 55-, and 82-fold more selective for human A(2B) than for human A(1) (K(i) value of 24 +/- 8 microM), human A(2A) (K(B) value of 36 +/- 8 microM), and human A(3) (K(i) value of 53 +/- 10 microM) adenosine receptors, respectively. IPDX inhibited NECA (5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine)-induced interleukin-8 secretion in human mast cells (HMC-1) with a potency close to that determined for A(2B)-mediated cAMP accumulation in HEL cells, thus confirming the role of A(2B) adenosine receptors in mediating human mast cell activation. Since adenosine triggers bronchoconstriction in asthmatic patients through human mast cell activation, IPDX may become a basis for the development of new antiasthmatic drugs with improved properties compared with those of enprofylline. Our data demonstrate that IPDX can be used as a tool to differentiate between A(2B) and other adenosine receptor-mediated responses.
Decrease in the total antioxidant activity of saliva in patients with periodontal diseases.	This study examined the role of free radical-induced tissue damage and the antioxidant defense mechanism of saliva in periodontal disease. Antioxidant activity of saliva was compared in 20 healthy individuals and 17 patients with periodontal diseases. We measured the scavenging capacity of saliva against free radicals generated in vitro by electrolysis, xanthine-xanthine oxidase, or stimulated polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Total protein content and total antioxidant activity of saliva were also determined. The results indicate that stimulated saliva of healthy individuals is significantly more effective (40-50%) than that of patients with periodontal diseases in scavenging a wide variety of free radicals generated in vitro. Under these conditions it appears that the total antioxidant activity of saliva is significantly decreased in these patients despite the fact that the levels of the three main antioxidants (uric acid, ascorbic acid, and albumin) are not significantly affected. We conclude that periodontal diseases are associated with an imbalance between oxidants and antioxidants in favor of the former due to both an increase in free radical production and a defect in the total antioxidant activity of saliva.
Structural properties of the neutral and monoanionic forms of xanthosine, highly relevant to their substrate properties with various enzyme systems.	The monoanions of the 6-oxopurines guanine (Gua) and hypoxanthine (Hx), and their nucleosides, pKa approximately 9 due to dissociation of the N(1)-H, are predominantly in their neutral forms at physiological pH. By contrast, the monoanions of the 6-oxopurine xanthine (Xan) and xanthosine (Xao), were long ago proposed to involve dissociation of the N(3)-H, with pKa values of 7.5 and 5.7, respectively, so that, at physiological pH, the former is mixture of the neutral and monoanionic species, and the latter predominantly the monoanion. We have employed multi-dimensional heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy, which fully confirms the proposed mode of monoanion formation in Xao (and, by implication, in Xan), further supported by the results of ab initio quantum mechanical calculations, and additionally extended to determination of the preferred conformational parameters in solution for the neutral and monoanionic species. These findings are highly relevant to the modes of binding, and to the substrate properties, of Xan, Xao and its 5'-phosphate (XMP) in numerous enzyme systems, hitherto virtually ignored, and illustrated by several concrete examples.
Partial agonists for A(3) adenosine receptors.	Selective agonists for A(3) adenosine receptors (ARs) could potentially be therapeutic agents for a variety of disorders, including brain and heart ischemic conditions, while partial agonists may have advantages over full agonists as a result of an increased selectivity of action. A number of structural determinants for A(3)AR activation have recently been identified, including the N(6)-benzyl group, methanocarba substitution of ribose, 2-chloro and 2-fluoro substituents, various 2'- and 3'-substitutions and 4'-thio substitution of oxygen. The 2-chloro substitution of CPA and R-PIA led to A(3) antagonism (CCPA) and partial agonism (Cl-R-PIA). 2-Chloroadenosine was a full agonist, while 2-fluoroadenosine was a partial agonist. Both 2'- and 3'- substitutions have a pronounced effect on its efficacy, although the effect of 2'-substitution was more dramatic. The 4-thio substitution of oxygen may also diminish efficacy, depending on other substitutions. Both N(6)-methyl and N(6)-benzyl groups may contribute to the A(3) affinity and selectivity; however, an N(6)-benzyl group but not an N(6)-methyl group diminishes A(3)AR efficacy. N(6)-benzyl substituted adenosine derivatives have similar potency for human and rat A(3)ARs while N(6)-methyl substitution was preferable for the human A(3)AR. The combination of 2-chloro and N(6)-benzyl substitutions appeared to reduce efficacy further than either modification alone. The A(2A)AR agonist DPMA was shown to be an antagonist for the human A(3)AR. Thus, the efficacy of adenosine derivatives at the A(3)AR appears to be more sensitive to small structural changes than at other subtypes. Potent and selective partial agonists for the A(3)AR could be identified by screening known adenosine derivatives and by modifying adenosine and the adenosine derivatives.
The comparison of the estimation of enzyme kinetic parameters by fitting reaction curve to the integrated Michaelis-Menten rate equations of different predictor variables.	The estimation of enzyme kinetic parameters by nonlinear fitting reaction curve to the integrated Michaelis-Menten rate equation ln(S(0)/S)+(S(0)-S)/K(m)=(V(m)/K(m))xt was investigated and compared to that by fitting to (S(0)-S)/t=V(m)-K(m)x[ln(S(0)/S)/t] (Atkins GL, Nimmo IA. The reliability of Michaelis-Menten constants and maximum velocities estimated by using the integrated Michaelis-Menten equation. Biochem J 1973;135:779-84) with uricase as the model. Uricase reaction curve was simulated with random absorbance error of 0.001 at 0.075 mmol/l uric acid. Experimental reaction curve was monitored by absorbance at 293 nm. For both CV and deviation <20% by simulation, K(m) from 5 to 100 micromol/l was estimated with Eq. (1) while K(m) from 5 to 50 micromol/l was estimated with Eq. (2). The background absorbance and the error in the lag time of steady-state reaction resulted in negative K(m) with Eq. (2), but did not affect K(m) estimated with Eq. (1). Both equations gave better estimation of V(m). The computation time and the goodness of fit with Eq. (1) were 40-fold greater than those with Eq. (2). By experimentation, Eq. (1) yielded K(m) consistent with the Lineweaver-Burk plot analysis, but Eq. (2) gave many negative parameters. Apparent K(m) by Eq. (1) linearly increased, while V(m) were constant, vs. xanthine concentrations, and the inhibition constant was consistent with the Lineweaver-Burk plot analysis. These results suggested that the integrated rate equation that uses the predictor variable of reaction time was reliable for the estimation of enzyme kinetic parameters and applicable for the characterization of enzyme inhibitors.
Molecular structures and vibrational frequencies of xanthine and its methyl derivatives (caffeine and theobromine) by ab initio Hartree-Fock and density functional theory calculations.	The molecular structures, vibrational frequencies and corresponding vibrational assignments of xanthine and its methyl derivatives (caffeine and theobromine) have been calculated using ab initio Hartree-Fock (HF) and density functional theory (B3LYP) methods with 6-31G(d, p) basis set level. The calculations were utilized to the C(S) symmetries of the molecules. The obtained vibrational frequencies and optimised geometric parameters (bond lengths and bond angles) were seen to be well agreement with the experimental data. The used scale factors which have been obtained the ratio of the frequency values of the strongest peaks in the calculated and experimental spectra seem to cause the gained vibrations well corresponding to the experimental ones. Theoretical infrared intensities and Raman activities are also reported.
Selective detection of superoxide anion radicals generated from macrophages by using a novel fluorescent probe.	Quantitation of superoxide radical (O (2)(-).) production at the site of radical generation remains challenging. A simple method to detect nanomolar to micromolar levels of superoxide radical in aqueous solution has been developed and optimized. This method is based on the efficient trapping of O(2)(-). using a novel fluorescent probe (2-chloro-1,3-dibenzothiazolinecyclohexene), coupled with a spectra character-signaling increase event. A high-specificity and high-sensitivity fluorescent probe was synthesized in-house and used to image O(2)(-). in living cells. Better selectivity for O(2)(-). over competing cellular reactive oxygen species and some biological compounds illustrates the advantages of our method. Under optimal conditions, the linear calibration range for superoxide anion radicals was 5.03 x 10(-9)-3.33 x 10(-6) M. The detection limit was 1.68 x 10(-9) M. Fluorescence images of probe-stained macrophages stimulated with 4beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate were obtained successfully using a confocal laser scanning microscope.
Purification and characterization of the FeII- and alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent xanthine hydroxylase from Aspergillus nidulans.	His6-tagged xanthine/alpha-ketoglutarate (alphaKG) dioxygenase (XanA) of Aspergillus nidulans was purified from both the fungal mycelium and recombinant Escherichia coli cells, and the properties of the two forms of the protein were compared. Evidence was obtained for both N- and O-linked glycosylation on the fungus-derived XanA, which aggregates into an apparent dodecamer, while bacterium-derived XanA is free of glycosylation and behaves as a monomer. Immunological methods identify phosphothreonine in both forms of XanA, with phosphoserine also detected in the bacterium-derived protein. Mass spectrometric analysis confirms glycosylation and phosphorylation of the fungus-derived sample, which also undergoes extensive truncation at its amino terminus. Despite the major differences in the properties of these proteins, their kinetic parameters are similar (kcat = 30-70 s-1, Km of alphaKG = 31-50 muM, Km of xanthine approximately 45 muM, and pH optima at 7.0-7.4). The enzyme exhibits no significant isotope effect when [8-2H]xanthine is used; however, it demonstrates a 2-fold solvent deuterium isotope effect. CuII and ZnII potently inhibit the FeII-specific enzyme, whereas CoII, MnII, and NiII are weaker inhibitors. NaCl decreases the kcat and increases the Km of both alphaKG and xanthine. The alphaKG cosubstrate can be substituted with alpha-ketoadipate (9-fold decrease in kcat and 5-fold increase in the Km compared to those of the normal alpha-keto acid), while the alphaKG analogue N-oxalylglycine is a competitive inhibitor (Ki = 0.12 muM). No alternative purines effectively substitute for xanthine as a substrate, and only one purine analogue (6,8-dihydroxypurine) results in significant inhibition. Quenching of the endogenous fluorescence of the two enzyme forms by xanthine, alphaKG, and DHP was used to characterize their binding properties. A XanA homology model was generated on the basis of the structure of the related enzyme TauD (PDB entry 1OS7) and provided insights into the sites of posttranslational modification and substrate binding. These studies represent the first biochemical characterization of purified xanthine/alphaKG dioxygenase.
FTIR and FT-Raman spectra, assignments, ab initio HF and DFT analysis of xanthine.	The molecular vibrations of xanthine were investigated in polycrystalline sample, at room temperature by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and FT-Raman spectroscopies. The spectra of the molecule have been recorded in the regions 4000-50 cm(-1) and 3500-100 cm(-1), respectively. Theoretical information on the optimized geometry, harmonic vibrational frequencies, infrared and Raman intensities were obtained by means of ab initio Hartree-Fock (HF) and density functional theory (DFT) gradient calculations with complete relaxation in the potential energy surface using 6-311++G(d,p) basis set. The vibrational frequencies which were determined experimentally from the spectral data are compared with those obtained theoretically from ab initio and DFT calculations. A close agreement was achieved between the observed and calculated frequencies by refinement of the scale factors. The infrared and Raman spectra were also predicted from the calculated intensities. Thermodynamic properties like entropy, heat capacity, zero point energy have been calculated for the molecule. Unambiguous vibrational assignment of all the fundamentals was made using the potential energy distribution (PED).
Tetrathiatriarylmethyl radical with a single aromatic hydrogen as a highly sensitive and specific superoxide probe.	Superoxide (O(2)(•-)) plays crucial roles in normal physiology and disease; however, its measurement remains challenging because of the limited sensitivity and/or specificity of prior detection methods. We demonstrate that a tetrathiatriarylmethyl (TAM) radical with a single aromatic hydrogen (CT02-H) can serve as a highly sensitive and specific O(2)(•-) probe. CT02-H is an analogue of the fully substituted TAM radical CT-03 (Finland trityl) with an electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) doublet signal due to its aromatic hydrogen. Owing to the neutral nature and negligible steric hindrance of the hydrogen, O(2)(•-) preferentially reacts with CT02-H at this site with production of the diamagnetic quinone methide via oxidative dehydrogenation. Upon reaction with O(2)(•-), CT02-H loses its EPR signal and this EPR signal decay can be used to quantitatively measure O(2)(•-). This is accompanied by a change in color from green to purple, with the quinone methide product exhibiting a unique UV-Vis absorbance (ε=15,900 M(-1) cm(-1)) at 540 nm, providing an additional O(2)(•-) detection method. More than five-fold higher reactivity of CT02-H for O(2)(•-) relative to CT-03 was demonstrated, with a second-order rate constant of 1.7×10(4) M(-1) s(-1) compared to 3.1×10(3) M(-1) s(-1) for CT-03. CT02-H exhibited high specificity for O(2)(•-) as evidenced by its inertness to other oxidoreductants. The O(2)(•-) generation rates detected by CT02-H from xanthine/xanthine oxidase were consistent with those measured by cytochrome c reduction but detection sensitivity was 10- to 100-fold higher. EPR detection of CT02-H enabled measurement of very low O(2)(•-) flux with a detection limit of 0.34 nM/min over 120 min. HPLC in tandem with electrochemical detection was used to quantitatively detect the stable quinone methide product and is a highly sensitive and specific method for measurement of O(2)(•-), with a sensitivity limit of ~2×10(-13) mol (10 nM with 20-μl injection volume). Based on the O(2)-dependent linewidth broadening of its EPR spectrum, CT02-H also enables simultaneous measurement of O(2) concentration and O(2)(•-) generation and was shown to provide sensitive detection of extracellular O(2)(•-) generation in endothelial cells stimulated either by menadione or with anoxia/reoxygenation. Thus, CT02-H is a unique probe that provides very high sensitivity and specificity for measurement of O(2)(•-) by either EPR or HPLC methods.
Design and evaluation of xanthine based adenosine receptor antagonists: potential hypoxia targeted immunotherapies.	Molecular modeling techniques were applied to the design, synthesis and optimization of a new series of xanthine based adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists. The optimized lead compound was converted to a PEG derivative and a functional in vitro bioassay used to confirm efficacy. Additionally, the PEGylated version showed enhanced aqueous solubility and was inert to photoisomerization, a known limitation of existing antagonists of this class.
Visual detection of Hg2+ based on Hg(2+)-xanthine complex preventing aggregation of gold nanoparticles.	Xanthine, which can specifically bind with mercury ion (Hg2+) to form xanthine-Hg(2+)-xanthine complex, was used as Hg2+ binding molecule in this paper. In the absence of Hg2+, imide group of xanthine easily adsorbs onto the surface of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) and induces aggregation of AuNPs, resulting in a blue color. In the presence of Hg2+, however, the selective binding of xanthine with Hg2+ prevents the AuNPs against xanthine induced aggregation, resulting in a visible color change from blue to red depend on the concentration of Hg2+. Therefore, taking advantage of this phenomenon, a simple, cost-effective and rapid method can be established for Hg2+ visual detection. This method allows the detection of Hg2+ in the range of 0.075-4.0 microM with a detection limit (3sigma/slope) of 15 nM, and exhibits a high selectivity toward Hg2+ over other metal ions. Particularly, as low as 0.5 microM Hg2+ can be easily detected by the naked eye without using any complicated or expensive instruments.
