Unique patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. Evidence for presence of a defect in a gene that is not identical to sterol 27-hydroxylase.	Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder believed to be exclusively caused by mutations in the CYP27A1 gene coding for the enzyme sterol 27-hydroxylase. Common findings in CTX are tendon xanthomas, cataracts and progressive neurological dysfunction. Here, we characterize an adult female patient with tendon xanthomas and classic biochemical findings of CTX (i.e. high levels of bile alcohols and cholestanol and extremely low levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol in plasma). Additionally, sterol 27-hydroxylase activity in cultured monocyte-derived macrophages from this patient was <5% of normal. Sequencing the CYP27A1 gene uncovered that the patient is heterozygous for two previously undescribed base substitutions in exon 8, C478A and C479A, which are expected to affect the haeme-binding domain of the enzyme. When expressed in HEK293 cells, the corresponding protein had only 8% of normal enzymatic activity. No other mutation was found in the open reading frame of the CYP27A1 gene, intron-exon boundaries or in the 5'-untranslated region up to 5000 bp distal to the translational start site. Sequencing mRNA isolated from leucocytes from the patient revealed a 1 : 1 ratio of mutated and nonmutated species, with total mRNA levels that were not significantly different from the controls. It is concluded that the patient is heterozygous for two mutations affecting one allele of the CYP27A1 gene and with at least one additional yet undefined gene that is of critical importance for the activity of sterol 27-hydroxylase.
Potential of gas chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry for the determination of sterols in human plasma.	The application of Gas Chromatography (GC)-Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization (APCI)-Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry (TOF-MS) is presented for sterol analysis in human plasma. A commercial APCI interface was modified to ensure a well-defined humidity which is essential for controlled ionization. In the first step, optimization regarding flow rates of auxiliary gases was performed by using a mixture of model analytes. Secondly, the qualitative and quantitative analysis of sterols including oxysterols, cholesterol precursors, and plant sterols as trimethylsilyl-derivatives was successfully carried out. The characteristics of APCI together with the very good mass accuracy of TOF-MS data enable the reliable identification of relevant sterols in complex matrices. Linear calibration lines and plausible results for healthy volunteers and patients could be obtained whereas all mass signals were extracted with an extraction width of 20 ppm from the full mass data set. One advantage of high mass accuracy can be seen in the fact that from one recorded run any search for m/z can be performed.
