Urinary methylxanthine and autistic disorder: absence of previously reported correlation.	We were unable to reveal significant difference in the levels of xanthine and methylxanthines in the urine samples from 59 patients diagnosed with autistic symptoms and 64 age- and sex-matched normal volunteers. Our data suggest that abnormalities in xanthine and methylxanthine excretion (US Patent 20020019406 A1, Feb. 12, 2002) represent distincly uncommon symptoms in autism.
Concordance between the deduced acetylation status generated by high-speed: real-time PCR based NAT2 genotyping of seven single nucleotide polymorphisms and human NAT2 phenotypes determined by a caffeine assay.	The utility of typing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for the determination of the N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) acetylation status is a matter of debate.
Mechanism of interaction between theophylline and mexiletine.	The mechanism of an interaction between theophylline and mexiletine hydrochloride was investigated in 6 male inpatients coadministered both drugs and 16 inpatients (13 men, 3 women) administered theophylline only. Serum theophylline and mexiletine concentrations and urinary concentrations of theophylline and its metabolites were monitored. Theophylline clearance was 0.0278 +/- 0.0047 L/kg/h (mean +/- SD) in patients coadministered theophylline and mexiletine and 0.0441 +/- 0.0096 in patients administered theophylline only (p less than 0.05). The fractional urine contents of 1-methyluric acid and 3-methylxanthine were 18.7 +/- 2.5 and 12.6 +/- 2.1 percent in the former group and 26.5 +/- 6.0 and 17.1 +/- 2.0 percent in the latter group, respectively (p less than 0.05). The fractional urine content of 1,3-dimethyluric acid was 51.8 +/- 3.2 in the former and 44.7 +/- 4.1 percent in the latter, respectively (p less than 0.05). An inverse correlation was obtained between serum mexiletine concentrations and total fractional urine content of 1-methyluric acid and 3-methylxanthine (r = 0.704). These results suggest that the mechanism of an interaction between theophylline and mexiletine is an inhibition of demethylation of theophylline by mexiletine.
An aged case of hereditary xanthinuria with xanthine urinary calculi]	A 74-year-old female with hereditary xanthinuria and xanthine stones is reported. She has a family history of consanguineous parents and a past history of right side nephrectomy due to a xanthine renal stone and vesicolithotomy of 3 bladder stones approximately 5 X 4 X 4 cm in size at the age of 58 and 71, respectively. Her young brother exhibited a slightly elevated urinary excretion of oxypurines. Laboratory examination showed a low serum level (0.3 mg/dl) and urinary excretion (1.56 mg/day) of uric acid, and high plasma and urine levels of oxypurines. No xanthine oxidase activity was detectably in duodenal mucosa by biopsy specimen obtained by duodenofiberscopy. Now she has another stone approximately 5 X 4 X 4 cm in her bladder. There have been are few elderly cases of hereditary xanthinuria with recurrent giant urolithiasis.
N-acetylator variability in Down's syndrome: characterization with caffeine.	Little is known regarding the biotransformation of drugs in Down's syndrome. In particular, there are no published studies that examine metabolic pathways such as N-acetylation, which can exhibit genetically-determined variability. The objective of the present investigation was to compare the acetylator phenotypes of white subjects with Down's syndrome with age-matched control subjects, with use of caffeine as the pharmacologic probe. After the ingestion of caffeine-containing beverages, spot urine collections were obtained at 2 and 4 hours in 22 subjects with Down's syndrome and in 22 control subjects (age range of 4 to 49 years). The urinary excretion ratios of 5-acetylamino-6-amino-3-methyluracil (AAMU) to 1-methylxanthine (1X) determined in these 2-hour and 4-hour samples were highly correlated (r = 0.82; p less than 0.001). In addition, more extensive urinary excretion studies performed for an 8-hour period in three subjects with Down's syndrome demonstrated that the coefficient of variability for the ratio of AAMU/1X ranged from 10.1% to 14.2%, which is similar to the reproducibility previously reported for control subjects. A trimodal distribution of acetylator phenotypes was observed, with no differences in average or frequency distribution of ratio values between the subjects with Down's syndrome and the control subjects. This study demonstrates that polymorphic N-acetylator status, as assessed by caffeine metabolism, is similar in subjects with Down's syndrome and in control subjects.
Study of the metabolism of pyrazinamide using a high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of urine samples.	A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed for the simultaneous determination of pyrazinamide and its metabolites in urine. Study of the metabolism of pyrazinamide by this method demonstrated that 5-hydroxypyrazinamide excretion was compatible with pyrazinoic acid excretion and allopurinol decreased in vivo conversion of pyrazinamide to 5-hydroxypyrazinamide and blocked that of pyrazinoic acid to 5-hydroxypyrazinoic acid.
Theophylline disposition during acute and chronic hypoxia in the conscious dog.	It has been reported in experimental models that acute hypoxia reduced the activity of the hepatic cytochrome P-450. The objective of the present study was to investigate in conscious dogs whether acute and chronic hypoxia will influence the disposition of theophylline. To this purpose 6 beagle dogs received 8 mg/kg i.v. of theophylline while breathing air, after acute hypoxia (PaO2 of 48.5 +/- 0.3 mmHg) and after 96 hours of hypoxia. Theophylline and metabolites, 3-methylxanthine and 1,3-dimethyluric acid, were assayed by HPLC. Theophylline volume of distribution, while breathing air, was 0.51 +/- 0.03 L/kg and was not affected by hypoxia. Theophylline metabolic and renal clearances were 1.53 +/- 0.24 and 0.18 +/- 0.04 mL/min/kg and remained constant when the dogs were hypoxic. The urinary recovery of theophylline and metabolites was not affected by acute or chronic hypoxia. It is concluded, that in the dog hypoxia does not affect the disposition of theophylline.
Liquid chromatography with multichannel ultraviolet detection used for studying disorders of purine metabolism.	We used a reversed-phase "high-performance" liquid-chromatographic system equipped with a multichannel ultraviolet spectrometric detector and a micro-computer for analyzing urine samples from patients with disorders of purine metabolism. This system recorded a series of absorption-spectrum data from a single chromatographic run and stored them for subsequent analysis. Because the retention times and ultraviolet absorption spectra of the eluates were recorded simultaneously, identification of peaks was easy and quite accurate for simultaneous quantification of orotidine, adenine, hypoxanthine, uric acid, xanthine, allopurinol (4-hydroxypyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine), oxypurinol (4,6-dihydroxypyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine), inosine, and 2,8-dihydroxyadenine--compounds extremely difficult or even impossible to quantify simultaneously with a conventional single-wavelength spectrometer. We used this method to investigate purine metabolites in urines from a patient with hereditary xanthinuria, three patients with 2,8-dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis, and a gouty subject taking allopurinol.
Bladder stone disease in children in Afghanistan.	Of 132 children with bladder stones seen in 1 year, 94% were boys and 73% were aged between 1 and 5 years. Significant malnutrition and evidence of vitamin deficiency were absent. Wheat bread was the dietary staple, while the intake of milk and dairy products, eggs and meat was very low. Analysis of 29 stones showed them to consist mainly of calcium oxalate and uric acid, with small amounts of calcium phosphate and magnesium ammonium phosphate in some cases. The composition of the surface and central parts of the stones, examined in 20 cases, was usually different. The nucleus was formed almost entirely of calcium oxalate and uric acid in four and three cases respectively, whereas the surface layers were composed of other ingredients. In another case the nucleus was composed entirely of xanthine, which indicated a diagnosis of xanthinuria.
Xanthinuria. New Report. Review of the literature]	Description a new case--the most precociously diagnosed in medical literature--of Xanthinuria, with the peculiarity of having débuted with cerebral haemorraging without lithiasis at any time. Metabolism of purines, characteristics of the disease in general and of the case concerned, and published cases are reviewed.
An automated HPLC assay for simultaneous quantitation of methylated xanthines and uric acids in urine.	To investigate the elimination kinetics of caffeine and its metabolites, as well as the interaction between them, an automated HPLC method is described. This method involves a single extraction procedure, followed by a gradient elution. Fourteen methylated xanthines and uric acids are well separated with an assay sensitivity of 1 microgram/ml when one-half ml of urine is used. The assay is highly selective, from endogenous compounds, and reproducible. This method is recommended for accurate pharmacokinetic studies.
Inhibition by idrocilamide of the disposition of caffeine.	The pharmacokinetics of caffeine are greatly altered by concomitant administration of idrocilamide. In four healthy volunteers id rocilamide inhibited the biotransformation of caffeine and increased its half-life nine times. The untoward neuropsychiatric effects of idrocilamide are the consequence of abnormal accumulation of caffeine in regular consumers of caffeine-containing foods and beverages.
Screening of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, barbiturates and methyl xanthines in equine urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) screening procedure for 23 acidic drugs in equine urine is described. With the GC-MS method fifteen anti-inflammatory drugs, five barbiturates and three methyl xanthines can be detected with good sensitivity and selectivity. The method consists of alkaline hydrolysis, extraction with organic solvent using salting-out, clean-up extraction, methylation and screening with GC-MS in selected-ion monitoring mode. The limit of detection is 10 micrograms 1(-1) or lower, for most drugs.
HPLC method for rapid determination of acetylator phenotype by measuring urinary caffeine metabolites.	A validated reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (RP-HPLC) method is developed for the selective and rapid determination of two major metabolites of caffeine, namely 5-acetylamino-6-formylamino-3-methyluracil (AFMU) and 1-methylxanthine (MX) from human urine. HPLC separation is achieved by means of a Supersphere-60 RP-Select B (4 microns) analytical column using a non-linear gradient elution programme of 70-95% solvent B (2.5% acetic acid-methanol, 60:40, v/v) in solvent A (water-acetonitrile, 80:20, v/v). A selective UV detection method is used for determination of AFMU, MX and internal standard with readings at 284, 268 and 248 nm, respectively. Urine samples are prepared for measurement by a simple chloroform-diethyl ether (80:20, v/v) extraction. The assay is validated with respect to linearity, sensitivity, accuracy, precision and system suitability. All validation parameters are found to be within the required limits. The limit of detection of AFMU and MX is found to be 50 ng/200 microliters urine. Calibration curves show good linearity between 0.1 and 5 micrograms/200 microliters urine concentration range for both metabolites. The assay is sufficiently sensitive and rapid (4.5 min chromatographic run) to be applied for routine monitoring of change in AFMU/MX molar ratio, indicating acetylation phenotype and change of caffeine metabolism in clinical cocktail studies.
Metabolism of intravenous adenine in the pig.	1. Adenine administered either parenterally or orally is less toxic to the pig than to other species; doses of 100 mg/kg are rapidly catabolised and excreted largely as soluble purine end-products in the urine. 2. The low toxicity is explained by the excretion of less than 1% of the dose as 2,8-dihydroxyadenine. 3. These results suggest that adenine dosages which give rise to kidney damage must be above a threshold-like level which varies in the different mammalian species, and is higher in the pig than in the rat, dog, rabbit or man.
Xanthinuria : study of a large kindred with familial urolithiasis and gout.	We have carried out biochemical and clinical studies on a large family in which xanthinuria, xanthine lithiasis, uric acid lithiasis and/or gout were discovered. The analysis of its pedigree has shown that : a) the mode of transmission of xanthinuria is autosomal recessive; b) the occurence of xanthine urolithiasis is likely to be due to the association of a second genetic disorder.
