X-linked ectodermal dysplasia receptor is downregulated in breast cancer via promoter methylation.	The X-linked ectodermal dysplasia receptor (XEDAR) is a novel receptor of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family that binds to ectodysplasin-A2 (EDA-A2) and induces cell death. The purpose of this study was to determine the tumor-suppressive potential of XEDAR in the development of breast cancer.
Investigation of the male pattern baldness major genetic susceptibility loci AR/EDA2R and 20p11 in female pattern hair loss.	The aetiology of female pattern hair loss (FPHL) is largely unknown. However, it is hypothesized that FPHL and male pattern baldness (AGA) share common susceptibility alleles. The two major susceptibility loci for AGA are the androgen receptor (AR)/ectodysplasin A2 receptor (EDA2R) locus on the X-chromosome, and a locus on chromosome 20p11, for which no candidate gene has yet been identified.
Investigation of four novel male androgenetic alopecia susceptibility loci: no association with female pattern hair loss.	Female pattern hair loss (FPHL) is a common hair loss disorder in women and has a complex mode of inheritance. The etiopathogenesis of FPHL is largely unknown; however, it is hypothesized that FPHL and male pattern baldness [androgenetic alopecia (AGA)] share common genetic susceptibility alleles. Our recent findings indicate that the major AGA locus, an X-chromosome region containing the androgen receptor and the ectodysplasin A2 receptor (EDA2R) genes, may represent a common genetic factor underlying both early-onset FPHL and AGA. This gives further support for the widespread assumption of shared susceptibility loci for FPHL and AGA. However, we could not demonstrate association of further AGA risk loci, including 20p11, 1p36.22, 2q37.3, 7p21.1, 7q11.22, 17q21.31, and 18q21.1, with FPHL. Interestingly, a recent study identified four novel AGA risk loci in chromosomal regions 2q35, 3q25.1, 5q33.3, and 12p12.1. In particular, the 2q35 locus and its gene WNT10A point to an as-yet unknown involvement of the WNT signaling pathway in AGA. We hypothesized that the novel loci and thus also the WNT signaling may have a role in the etiopathogenesis of FPHL and therefore examined the role of these novel AGA risk loci in our FPHL samples comprising 440 German and 145 UK affected patients, 500 German unselected controls (blood donors), and 179 UK supercontrols. Patients and controls were genotyped for the top two single nucleotide polymorphisms at each of the four AGA loci. However, none of the genotyped variants displayed any significant association. In conclusion, the results of this study provide no support for the hypothesis that the novel AGA loci influence susceptibility to FPHL. 
