Effects of inhalational anesthetics on L-type Ca2+ currents in human atrial cardiomyocytes during beta-adrenergic stimulation.	Anesthetics may cause cardiac side effects by their action on L-type Ca2+ channels. Direct effects on the channels have not yet been discriminated from an interference with the beta-adrenergic channel regulation. The authors therefore studied the effects of halothane, sevoflurane, and xenon on human cardiac Ca2+ currents during stimulation with isoproterenol.
Randomized controlled trial of the haemodynamic and recovery effects of xenon or propofol anaesthesia.	There is limited clinical experience with xenon in a large number of patients. We present intra- and postoperative haemodynamic and recovery data comparing xenon and total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol.
The noble gas xenon induces pharmacological preconditioning in the rat heart in vivo via induction of PKC-epsilon and p38 MAPK.	Xenon is an anesthetic with minimal hemodynamic side effects, making it an ideal agent for cardiocompromised patients. We investigated if xenon induces pharmacological preconditioning (PC) of the rat heart and elucidated the underlying molecular mechanisms. For infarct size measurements, anesthetized rats were subjected to 25 min of coronary artery occlusion followed by 120 min of reperfusion. Rats received either the anesthetic gas xenon, the volatile anesthetic isoflurane or as positive control ischemic preconditioning (IPC) during three 5-min periods before 25-min ischemia. Control animals remained untreated for 45 min. To investigate the involvement of protein kinase C (PKC) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), rats were pretreated with the PKC inhibitor calphostin C (0.1 mg kg(-1)) or the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 (1 mg kg(-1)). Additional hearts were excised for Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Infarct size was reduced from 50.9+/-16.7% in controls to 28.1+/-10.3% in xenon, 28.6+/-9.9% in isoflurane and to 28.5+/-5.4% in IPC hearts. Both, calphostin C and SB203580, abolished the observed cardioprotection after xenon and isoflurane administration but not after IPC. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot assay revealed an increased phosphorylation and translocation of PKC-epsilon in xenon treated hearts. This effect could be blocked by calphostin C but not by SB203580. Moreover, the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK was induced by xenon and this effect was blocked by calphostin C. In summary, we demonstrate that xenon induces cardioprotection by PC and that activation of PKC-epsilon and its downstream target p38 MAPK are central molecular mechanisms involved. Thus, the results of the present study may contribute to elucidate the beneficial cardioprotective effects of this anesthetic gas.
The influence of xenon, nitrous oxide and nitrogen on gas bubble expansion during cardiopulmonary bypass.	Xenon may have favourable applications in the setting of cardiac surgery. Its advantages include a desirable haemodynamic profile as well as potential cardiac and neuroprotective properties. However, its low solubility may lead to enhanced diffusion into enclosed gas spaces. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of xenon (Xe), nitrous oxide (N2O) and nitrogen (N2) on gas bubble size during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
Xenon blocks the induction of synaptic long-term potentiation in pain pathways in the rat spinal cord in vivo.	Xenon's (Xe) mechanisms for producing anesthesia and analgesia are not fully understood. We tested the effect of Xe equilibrated in a lipid formulation or normal saline on spinal C-fiber-evoked potentials and on the induction of synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP).
Xenon alters right ventricular function.	In contrast to other volatile anesthetics, xenon produces less cardiovascular depression with fewer fluctuations of various hemodynamic parameters, but reduces cardiac output (CO) in vivo. Besides an increase in left ventricular afterload and reduction of heart rate, an impairment of the right ventricular function might be an additional pathophysiological mechanism for the reduction of CO. Therefore, we used an animal model to study the effects of xenon as a supplemental anesthetic on right ventricular function, especially right ventricular afterload.
Noble gas xenon is a novel adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel opener.	Adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels in brain are involved in neuroprotective mechanisms. Pharmacologic activation of these channels is seen as beneficial, but clinical exploitation by using classic K channel openers is hampered by their inability to cross the blood-brain barrier. This is different with the inhalational anesthetic xenon, which recently has been suggested to activate KATP channels; it partitions freely into the brain.
Xenon enhances LPS-induced IL-1β expression in microglia via the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 pathway.	The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is involved in the cytokine production of immune cells. In this study, we show the influence of xenon on phosphatase activity, ERK 1/2 signalling and cytokine expression in microglia. The murine microglia cell line BV-2 was treated with 50 ng/ml lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 74% xenon in 21% O(2) and 5% CO(2). Cytokine levels were examined by gene expression analysis, Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Phosphatase inhibition was assessed with p-nitrophenylphosphate and phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 via Western blot. Xenon significantly enhanced LPS-mediated IL-1β expression. ERK 1/2 phosphorylation was observed after xenon or LPS treatment which was inhibited by the use of the MEK inhibitor U0126. Xenon and LPS in combination superimposed individual effects on ERK 1/2 activation. Xenon decreased cellular phosphatase activity in microglia by 20% and inhibited dephosphorylation of ERK 1/2 up to 1 h. The blocking of ERK 1/2 reduced IL-1β expression in xenon and LPS-treated cells to a level obtained by LPS alone. In conclusion, xenon enhanced LPS-induced IL-1β expression in microglia by activation of ERK 1/2 signalling. Xenon's interference with phosphatases may be a key feature to affect multiple intracellular signalling pathways.
Xenon is not superior to isoflurane on cardiovascular function during experimental acute pulmonary hypertension.	Acute right ventricular afterload increase is a known perioperative challenge for the anaesthetic regime especially for patients with a compromised right ventricle. The accused negative inotropic action of volatile anaesthetics, with the exception of xenon, might be crucial for the adaptation of the right ventricle.
Xenon and sevoflurane provide analgesia during labor and fetal brain protection in a perinatal rat model of hypoxia-ischemia.	It is not possible to identify all pregnancies at risk of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE). Many women use some form of analgesia during childbirth and some anesthetic agents have been shown to be neuroprotective when used as analgesics at subanesthetic concentrations. In this study we sought to understand the effects of two anesthetic agents with presumptive analgesic activity and known preconditioning-neuroprotective properties (sevoflurane or xenon), in reducing hypoxia-induced brain damage in a model of intrauterine perinatal asphyxia. The analgesic and neuroprotective effects at subanesthetic levels of sevoflurane (0.35%) or xenon (35%) were tested in a rat model of intrauterine perinatal asphyxia. Analgesic effects were measured by assessing maternal behavior and spinal cord dorsal horn neuronal activation using c-Fos. In separate experiments, intrauterine fetal asphyxia was induced four hours after gas exposure; on post-insult day 3 apoptotic cell death was measured by caspase-3 immunostaining in hippocampal neurons and correlated with the number of viable neurons on postnatal day (PND) 7. A separate cohort of pups was nurtured by a surrogate mother for 50 days when cognitive testing with Morris water maze was performed. Both anesthetic agents provided analgesia as reflected by a reduction in the number of stretching movements and decreased c-Fos expression in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Both agents also reduced the number of caspase-3 positive (apoptotic) neurons and increased cell viability in the hippocampus at PND7. These acute histological changes were mirrored by improved cognitive function measured remotely after birth on PND 50 compared to control group. Subanesthetic doses of sevoflurane or xenon provided both analgesia and neuroprotection in this model of intrauterine perinatal asphyxia. These data suggest that anesthetic agents with neuroprotective properties may be effective in preventing HIE and should be tested in clinical trials in the future.
Effect of stable xenon in room air on regional cerebral blood flow and electroencephalogram in normal baboons.	Measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was performed in 6 healthy baboons during ventilation with 35% stable xenon in artificial air. rCBF was measured with the intraarterial xenon-133 method. EEG was recorded continuously. All CBF areas of interest over one hemisphere reacted in the same way. Mean flow increased during short-term exposure to stable xenon and decreased if stable xenon inhalation was continued for at least 24 minutes. EEG showed a decrease of alpha- and beta-wave patterns a short time after the start of stable xenon inhalation without further changes over the period when rCBF finally decreased. CO2 reactivity increased in most animals, and autoregulation to mild arterial hypotension was significantly impaired with increased flow. It is concluded that 35% stable xenon in artificial air increases rCBF after short-term exposure and decreases rCBF after longer exposure. EEG changes were noted after short-term exposure. rCBF and EEG recovered rapidly after the end of stable xenon inhalation.
Left ventricular performance and cerebral haemodynamics during xenon anaesthesia. A transoesophageal echocardiography and transcranial Doppler sonography study.	The effects of xenon anaesthesia on myocardial function and cerebral blood flow velocities were investigated with transoesophageal echocardiography and transcranial Doppler sonography. Seventeen ASA 1 patients undergoing open cholecystectomy (n = 16) or abdominal hysterectomy (n = 1) were studied. Anaesthesia with 65% xenon in oxygen was induced by ventilating the lungs through a circle system with minimal fresh gas flow. The echocardiographically obtained mean (SD) fractional area change in a short axis view of the left ventricle at the level of the papillary muscles was 65 (10)% (n = 14) before xenon. There was no significant change after 5, 10 and 15 min of xenon anaesthesia. Cerebral blood flow velocities were unchanged during the first 5 min of xenon anaesthesia, but were significantly increased in the left and right middle, and the right anterior, cerebral arteries after 15 and 30 min (n = 16) (p < 0.05). In conclusion, xenon anaesthesia had no adverse effect on myocardial function, but probably increased cerebral flood flow.
