Distribution of uronic acids in xylans from various species of soft- and hardwood as determined by MALDI mass spectrometry.	The distribution of 4-O-methylglucuronic acid residues along the polysaccharide chains of xylans isolated from birch, aspen, spruce, pine, and larch was studied here employing matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) analysis of the oligosaccharide mixtures obtained by partial acid hydrolysis. The hydrolyzates thus obtained were analyzed by MALDI-MS or by capillary electrophoresis as well as by size exclusion chromatography in combination with MALDI-MS. In the case of all softwood xylans examined, the major portion of the 4-O-methylglucuronic acid residues were distributed regularly on every seventh or eighth xylose residue, while a minor portion of these residues were attached to adjacent xylose residues in the beta-(1-->4)-D-xylopolysaccharide chains. In contrast, the 4-O-methylglucuronic acid residues in the hardwood xylans examined were found to be distributed irregularly within the xylan. Further support for these experimental findings with the xylans was obtained by simulation of the distribution patterns of the molecular masses of oligosaccharides arising from polysaccharides with the postulated distribution of uronic acid residues.
Positive and negative electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry as a tool for structural characterisation of acid released oligosaccharides from olive pulp glucuronoxylans.	Xylo-oligosaccharides with degrees of polymerisation 5-13, formed by partial acid hydrolysis from an extract representative of olive pulp glucuronoxylans (GX), were analysed by electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry (ESI-MS), both in positive and negative modes. The positive spectrum showed the presence of xylo-oligosaccharides in the mass range between m/z 500 and 1500 corresponding to singly [M+Na](+) charged ions of neutral (Xyl(7-9)) and acidic xylo-oligosaccharides (Xyl(5-9)MeGlcA), and doubly [M+2Na](2+) charged ions of Xyl(9-13) and Xyl(7-11)MeGlcA. Ammonium adducts [M+NH(4)](+) were also observed for Xyl(5-9)MeGlcA. The negative spectra showed the contribution of ions in the mass range between m/z 600 and 1400, ascribed to the deprotonated molecules [M-H](-) of Xyl(3-9)MeGlcA. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) of the major ions observed in the MS spectra was performed. The MS/MS spectra of the [M+Na](+) adducts showed the loss of MeGlcA residues as the major fragmentation pathway and glycosidic fragment ions of Xyl(n) and Xyl(n)MeGlcA structures. The MS/MS spectra of the [M+NH(4)](+) adducts suggests the occurrence of isomers of Xyl(5-9)MeGlcA oligosaccharides with the MeGlcA residue at the reducing end and at the non-reducing end of the molecules, although other structural isomers can also occur. Both glycosidic bond and cross-ring cleavages in the MS/MS spectra of the [M-H](-) ion suggest the occurrence of Xyl(3-9)MeGlcA with the substituting group at the reducing end position of the xylose backbone, as the main fragmentation ions. The results obtained by ESI-MS/MS, both in positive and negative modes, of Xyl(7-13)- and Xyl(5-11)MeGlcA, allow to identify fragmentation patterns of the structural isomers with MeGlcA linked to the terminal xylosyl residues of the oligosaccharides. The occurrence of these higher molecular weight oligosaccharides with a low substitution pattern allows to infer a scatter and random distribution of MeGlcA along the xylan backbone of olive pulp.
Structural features of arabinoxylans extracted with water at different temperatures from two rye flours of diverse breadmaking quality.	The water extractable (WE) arabinoxylans from two rye flours differing in baking quality were studied following sequential extraction with water at 4, 40, and 100 degrees C. Ammonium sulfate fractionation of the resulting WE fractions and subsequent analysis revealed substantial differences in the structure of the isolated materials. Furthermore, it allowed us to identify the factors contributing to arabinoxylan water extractability. Our results provide compelling evidence for the existence of separate polymers in rye WE arabinoxylans with different substitution degrees, ranging from quantitatively dominating, lowly substituted populations (arabinose to xylose ratio, Ara/Xyl approximately 0.5) to comparatively less abundant, highly substituted analogues (Ara/Xyl approximately 1.3). Generally, arabinoxylan water extractability was governed by the relative proportion of lowly and highly branched structures. A gradually increasing proportion of highly substituted populations was observed from cold to hot WE fractions. This was associated with the lower proportion of monosubstituted xylopyranosyl residues in the backbone, the higher proportion of disubstituted xylopyranosyl residues, and the higher level of substitution with feruloyl residues. Notable differences in the ratio of phenolic compounds to arabinose residues were observed between corresponding polymers isolated from rye flours of high and low baking quality, whereas the differences in their molecular weights were much less pronounced.
An alkali-soluble heteroxylan from seeds of Phoenix dactylifera L.	Alkali-soluble polysaccharides, isolated from the seeds of dates, have been investigated using methylation and partial hydrolysis studies. The polysaccharides are shown to contain D-xylose and 4-O-methyl-D-glucuronic acid in a molar ratio of 5:1. An aldobiouronic acid from hemicellulose was characterized, and investigation revealed that the hemicellulose consists of a polymer of (1-->4)-linked D-xylopranosyl residues having branches of D-xylopyranosyl and 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyluronic acid.
Crystal structures of a poplar xyloglucan endotransglycosylase reveal details of transglycosylation acceptor binding.	Xyloglucan endotransglycosylases (XETs) cleave and religate xyloglucan polymers in plant cell walls via a transglycosylation mechanism. Thus, XET is a key enzyme in all plant processes that require cell wall remodeling. To provide a basis for detailed structure-function studies, the crystal structure of Populus tremula x tremuloides XET16A (PttXET16A), heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris, has been determined at 1.8-A resolution. Even though the overall structure of PttXET16A is a curved beta-sandwich similar to other enzymes in the glycoside hydrolase family GH16, parts of its substrate binding cleft are more reminiscent of the distantly related family GH7. In addition, XET has a C-terminal extension that packs against the conserved core, providing an additional beta-strand and a short alpha-helix. The structure of XET in complex with a xyloglucan nonasaccharide, XLLG, reveals a very favorable acceptor binding site, which is a necessary but not sufficient prerequisite for transglycosylation. Biochemical data imply that the enzyme requires sugar residues in both acceptor and donor sites to properly orient the glycosidic bond relative to the catalytic residues.
Mechanical effects of plant cell wall enzymes on cellulose/xyloglucan composites.	Xyloglucan-acting enzymes are believed to have effects on type I primary plant cell wall mechanical properties. In order to get a better understanding of these effects, a range of enzymes with different in vitro modes of action were tested against cell wall analogues (bio-composite materials based on Acetobacter xylinus cellulose and xyloglucan). Tomato pericarp xyloglucan endo transglycosylase (tXET) and nasturtium seed xyloglucanase (nXGase) were produced heterologously in Pichia pastoris. Their action against the cell wall analogues was compared with that of a commercial preparation of Trichoderma endo-glucanase (EndoGase). Both 'hydrolytic' enzymes (nXGase and EndoGase) were able to depolymerise not only the cross-link xyloglucan fraction but also the surface-bound fraction. Consequent major changes in cellulose fibril architecture were observed. In mechanical terms, removal of xyloglucan cross-links from composites resulted in increased stiffness (at high strain) and decreased visco-elasticity with similar extensibility. On the other hand, true transglycosylase activity (tXET) did not affect the cellulose/xyloglucan ratio. No change in composite stiffness or extensibility resulted, but a significant increase in creep behaviour was observed in the presence of active tXET. These results provide direct in vitro evidence for the involvement of cell wall xyloglucan-specific enzymes in mechanical changes underlying plant cell wall re-modelling and growth processes. Mechanical consequences of tXET action are shown to be complimentary to those of cucumber expansin.
Fungal upgrading of wheat straw for straw-thermoplastics production.	Combining biologic pretreatment with storage is an innovative approach for improving feedstock characteristics and cost, but the magnitude of responses of such systems to upsets is unknown. Unsterile wheat straw stems were upgraded for 12 wk with Pleurotus ostreatus at constant temperature to estimate the variation in final compositions with variations in initial moisture and inoculum. Degradation rates and conversions increased with both moisture and inoculum. A regression analysis indicated that system performance was quite stable with respect to inoculum and moisture content after 6 wk of treatment. Scale-up by 150x indicated that system stability and final straw composition are sensitive to inoculum source, history, and inoculation method. Comparative testing of straw-thermoplastic composites produced from upgraded stems is under way.
Ammonia fiber explosion treatment of corn stover.	Optimizing process conditions and parameters such as ammonia loading, moisture content of biomass, temperature, and residence time is necessary for maximum effectiveness of the ammonia fiber explosion process. Approximate optimal pretreatment conditions for corn stover were found to be temperature of 90 degrees C, ammonia:dry corn stover mass ratio of 1:1, moisture content of corn stover of 60% (dry weight basis), and residence time (holding at target temperature), of 5 min. Approximately 98% of the theoretical glucose yield was obtained during enzymatic hydrolysis of the optimal treated corn stover using 60 filter paper units (FPU) of cellulase enzyme/g of glucan (equal to 22 FPU/g of dry corn stover). The ethanol yield from this sample was increased up to 2.2 times over that of untreated sample. Lowering enzyme loading to 15 and 7.5 FPU/g of glucan did not significantly affect the glucose yield compared with 60 FPU, and any differences between effects at different enzyme levels decreased as the treatment temperature increased.
Initial evaluation of simple mass transfer models to describe hemicellulose hydrolysis in corn stover.	The uncatalyzed hydrolysis and removal of xylan from corn stover is markedly enhanced when operation is changed from batch to continuous flowthrough conditions, and the increase in hemicellulose removal with flow rate is inconsistent with predictions by widely used first-order kinetic models. Mass transfer or other physical effects could influence the hydrolysis rate, and two models reported in the literature for other applications were adapted to investigate whether incorporation of mass transfer into the kinetics could explain xylan removal in both batch and continuous flowthrough reactors on a more consistent basis. It was found that a simple leaching model and a pore diffusion/leaching model could describe batch and flowthrough data with accuracy similar to that of conventional batch models and could provide a more rational explanation for changes in performance with flow rate.
Impact of fluid velocity on hot water only pretreatment of corn stover in a flowthrough reactor.	Flowthrough pretreatment with hot water only offers many promising features for advanced pretreatment of biomass, and a better understand- ing of the mechanisms responsible for flowthrough behavior could allow researchers to capitalize on key attributes while overcoming limitations. In this study, the effect of fluid velocity on the fate of total mass, hemicellulose, and lignin was evaluated for hot water only pretreatment of corn stover in tubular flowthrough reactors. Increasing fluid velocity significantly accelerated solubilization of total mass, hemicellulose, and lignin at early times. For example, when fluid velocity was increased from 2.8 to 10.7 cm/min, xylan removal increased from 60 to 82% for hot water only pretreatment of corn stover at 200 degrees C after 8 min. At the same time, lignin removal increased from 30 to 46%. Dissolved hemicellulose was almost all in oligomeric form, and solubilization of hemicellulose was always accompanied by lignin release. The increase in removal of xylan and lignin with velocity, especially in the early reaction stage, suggests that chemical reaction is not the only factor controlling hemicellulose hydrolysis and that mass transfer and other physical effects may also play an important role in hemicellulose and lignin degradation and removal.
Hydrolysis of Nothogenia erinacea xylan by xylanases from families 10 and 11.	The structures of several enzymatic hydrolysis products of Nothogenia erinacea seaweed xylan, a linear homopolymer with mixed beta-(1-->3)/beta-(1-->4) linkages, were analysed by physicochemical and biochemical techniques. With the glycoside hydrolase family 10 beta-(1-->4)-xylanase from Cryptococcus adeliae, hydrolysis proceeds to a final mixture of products containing a mixed linkage-type triose as a major compound, whereas with the family 11 xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus this is a mixed linkage tetraose. The Cryptococcus xylanase is shown to be capable of also catalysing the hydrolysis of beta-(1-->3) linkages, that is this of a mixed type tetraose intermediary formed, in accordance with the broader substrate specificity of family 10 enzymes. From a partial degradation experiment with the T. lanuginosus xylanase, a series of higher mixed oligosaccharides were isolated and identified. The observed oligosaccharide intermediates and splicing pattern indicate an irregular beta-(1-->3)/beta-(1-->4) linkage distribution within the linear d-xylose polymer. Similar results were obtained with rhodymenan, the seaweed xylan from Palmares palmata.
NMR characterization of the polysaccharidic fraction from Lentinula edodes grown on olive mill waste waters.	A high-field NMR study of the polysaccharidic fraction extracted from Lentinula edodes mycelium grown on olive mill waste waters is reported. Diffusion-ordered NMR spectroscopy (DOSY) was applied to the polysaccharidic fraction. The results showed the presence of two polysaccharides of different sizes, whose structures were revealed using one- and two-dimensional NMR techniques. These two polysaccharides were identified as xylan and lentinan.
Two endoxylanases active and stable at alkaline pH from the newly isolated thermophilic fungus, Myceliophthora sp. IMI 387099.	Two extra-cellular endoxylanases (Xyl Ia and Ib) were purified to homogeneity from the newly isolated thermophilic fungus, Myceliophthora sp. IMI 387099. Xyl Ia and Ib, having a molecular mass of approximately 53 kDa and pI of 5.2 and 4.8, respectively, were optimally active at 75 degrees C and at pH 6.0. They were stable at pH 9.2 at 60 degrees C for 2 h, but less stable at pH 6.0 and above 50 degrees C. Mg+2, Zn+2, Ca+2, Co+2 and DTT increased their activity by 1.5-3.0-folds, while SDS and NBS completely inhibited their activity. Both xylanases were active on pNPX and pNPC, but their activity on pNPC was three times higher than that on pNPX. Xyl Ia was more active than Xyl Ib on pNP-alpha-L-Arap, while the latter preferred pNP-alpha-L-Araf. Both xylanases showed two to four times higher activity on rye and wheat arabinoxylans than on birchwood xylan, but Xyl Ib was more active than Xyl Ia on oat spelt xylan. Wheat insoluble pentosan was a good substrate for Xyl Ia, while Xyl Ib preferred wheat soluble arabinoxylan. Xyl Ia had lower Km and higher kcat/Km ratios than Xyl Ib towards all three xylans tested. Both xylanases degraded X4-X6 in an endo-fashion and catalysed hydrolysis and trans-xylosylation reactions. HPLC and LC/MS analysis showed that Xyl Ia and Ib released the unsubstituted X2-X6 as well as mono and di-methyl glucuronic acid substituted X3 and X2 from arabinoxylans.
Binding sub-site dissection of a carbohydrate-binding module reveals the contribution of entropy to oligosaccharide recognition at "non-primary" binding subsites.	The optimal ligands for many carbohydrate-binding proteins are often oligosaccharides comprising two, three, or more monosaccharide units. The binding affinity for these sugars is increased incrementally by contributions from binding subsites on the protein that accommodate the individual monosaccharide residues of the oligosaccharide. Here, we use CsCBM6-1, a xylan-specific type B carbohydrate-binding module (CBM) from Clostridium stercorarium falling into amino acid sequence family CBM6, as a model system to investigate the structural and thermodynamic contributions of binding subsites in this protein to carbohydrate recognition. The three-dimensional structures of uncomplexed CsCBM6-1 (at 1.8 A resolution) and bound to the oligosaccharides xylobiose, xylotriose, and xylotetraose (at 1.70 A, 1.89 A, and 1.69 A resolution, respectively) revealed the sequential occupation of four subsites within the binding site in the order of subsites 2, 3, 4 then 1. Overall, binding to all of the xylooligosaccharides tested was enthalpically favourable and entropically unfavourable, like most protein-carbohydrate interactions, with the primary subsites 2 and 3 providing the bulk of the free energy and enthalpy of binding. In contrast, the contributions to the changes in entropy of the non-primary subsites 1 and 4 to xylotriose and xylotetraose binding, respectively, were positive. This observation is remarkable, in that it shows that the 10-20-fold improvement in association constants for oligosaccharides longer than a disaccharide is facilitated by favourable entropic contributions from the non-primary binding subsites.
Ab initio structure determination and functional characterization of CBM36; a new family of calcium-dependent carbohydrate binding modules.	The enzymatic degradation of polysaccharides harnesses multimodular enzymes whose carbohydrate binding modules (CBM) target the catalytic domain onto the recalcitrant substrate. Here we report the ab initio structure determination and subsequent refinement, at 0.8 A resolution, of the CBM36 domain of the Paenibacillus polymyxa xylanase 43A. Affinity electrophoresis, isothermal titration calorimetry, and UV difference spectroscopy demonstrate that CBM36 is a novel Ca(2+)-dependent xylan binding domain. The 3D structure of CBM36 in complex with xylotriose and Ca(2+), at 1.5 A resolution, displays significant conformational changes compared to the native structure and reveals the molecular basis for its unique Ca(2+)-dependent binding of xylooligosaccharides through coordination of the O2 and O3 hydroxyls. CBM36 is one of an emerging spectrum of carbohydrate binding modules that increasingly find applications in industry and display great potential for mapping the "glyco-architecture" of plant cells.
Material properties of plasticized hardwood xylans for potential application as oxygen barrier films.	Free films based on glucuronoxylan isolated from aspen wood were prepared by casting from aqueous solutions and drying in a controlled environment. Addition of xylitol or sorbitol facilitated film formation and thus examination of the material properties of these films. The mechanical properties of the films were evaluated using tensile testing and dynamic mechanical analysis in a controlled ambient relative humidity. The strain at break increased, and the stress at break and Young's modulus of the films decreased with increasing amounts of xylitol and sorbitol due to plasticization. At high amount of plasticizer, it was found that films with xylitol gave lower extensibility. Wide-angle X-ray scattering analysis showed that xylitol crystallized in a distinct phase, which we believe contributes to the more brittle behavior of these films. The effect of the plasticizers on the glass transition temperature was determined using dynamic mechanical analysis and differential scanning calorimetry. An increased amount of plasticizer shifted the glass transition to lower temperatures. The effect of moisture on the properties of plasticized films was investigated using water vapor sorption isotherms and by humidity scans in dynamic mechanical analysis. Sorption isotherms showed a transition from type II to type III when adding plasticizer. The films showed low oxygen permeability and thus have a potential application in food packaging.
Structures of Bacillus subtilis PdaA, a family 4 carbohydrate esterase, and a complex with N-acetyl-glucosamine.	Family 4 carbohydrate esterases deacetylate polymeric carbohydrate substrates such as chitin, acetyl xylan and peptidoglycan. Although some of these enzymes have recently been enzymologically characterised, neither their structure nor their reaction mechanism has been defined. Sequence conservation in this family has pointed to a conserved core, termed the NodB homology domain. We describe the cloning, purification and 1.9 A crystal structure of PdaA, a peptidoglycan deacetylase from Bacillus subtilis. The enzyme assumes a fold related to a (beta/alpha)8 barrel, with a long groove on the surface of the protein that harbours all conserved residues. A complex with the substrate analogue N-acetyl-glucosamine was refined to 2.25 A resolution, revealing interactions of an aspartic acid and three histidines, all conserved in the NodB homology domain, with the ligand. The PdaA structure provides a template for interpreting the wealth of sequence data on family 4 carbohydrate esterases in a structural context and represents a first step towards understanding the reaction mechanism of this family of enzymes.
Thermostable xylanase10B from Clostridium acetobutylicum ATCC824.	The Clostridium acetobutylicum xylanase gene xyn10B (CAP0116) was cloned from the type strain ATCC 824, whose genome was recently sequenced. The nucleotide sequence of C. acetobutylicum xyn10B encodes a 318-amino acid protein. Xyn10B consists of a single catalytic domain that belongs to family 10 of glycosyl hydrolases. The enzyme was purified from recombinant Escherichia coli. The Xyn10B enzyme was highly active toward birchwood xylan, oat-spelt xylan, and moderately active toward avicel, carboxymethyl cellulose, polygalacturonic acid, lichenan, laminarin, barley-beta-glucan and various p-nitrophenyl monosaccharides. Xyn10B hydrolyzed xylan and xylooligosaccharides to produce xylobiose and xylotriose. The pH optimum of Xyn10B was 5.0, and the optimal temperature was 70 degrees C. The enzyme was stable at 60 degrees C at pH 5.0-6.5 for 1 h without substrate. This is one of a number of xylan-related activities encoded on the large plasmid in C. acetobutylicum ATCC 824.
Processing of rice husk autohydrolysis liquors for obtaining food ingredients.	Rice husks are of a lignocellulosic nature, with a hemicellulose fraction made up of substituted arabinoxylan. Rice husks were treated with hot, compressed water (autohydrolysis reaction) under optimized conditions to cause the hydrolytic degradation of arabinoxylan. The reaction products contained volatile components and nonvolatile components (NVC), which were made up of hemicellulose-derived products (substituted oligosaccharides and monosaccharides) and other nonvolatile solutes (ONVS). To decrease the content of ONVS, concentrated autohydrolysis liquors were first subjected to ethyl acetate extraction and then subjected to various alternative treatments (solvent precipitation, freeze-drying solvent extraction, or ion exchange). The resulting liquors were assayed for composition and yield determination. Material balances are presented for the several processes considered. The best results in terms of purification were obtained with sequential stages of ethyl acetate extraction and ion exchange, which led to concentrates with hemicellulose-derived compounds (sugars and substituted sugar oligomers) accounting for 92 wt % of the NVCs.
Alginate microcapsules prepared with xyloglucan as a synthetic extracellular matrix for hepatocyte attachment.	In this study, xyloglucan (XG) was used as a new synthetic extracellular matrix (ECM) for primary mouse hepatocyte attachment in Ca-alginate (AL) capsules. The rates of hepatocytes adhesion onto collagen type I-, XG-coated and uncoated polystyrene (PS) surface were 89.1%, 91.1% and 25.5%, respectively, at 4 h after incubation at 37 degrees C. From the inhibition study in a cell adhesion assay, the adhesion rates of freshly isolated hepatocytes and preincubated hepatocytes with 20 mm galactose onto the XG-coated surface were 55.7 and 17.3%, respectively, after 30 min incubation at 37 degrees C. Flow cytometric analysis showed that the internalization of XG by freshly isolated hepatocytes was stronger than preincubated hepatocytes with 20 mm galactose. The concentration of XG in AL/XG capsules to perform the best liver-specific functions was 0.5 mg/ml, where the highest albumin secretion rates were obtained. The albumin secretion, ammonia elimination rates and cell viability of hepatocytes were slowly decreased with culture time in AL/XG capsules, whereas those were rapidly decreased in AL capsules, indication of the more rapid formation of hepatocyte spheroids in AL/XG capsules than in AL capsules. More than 70% of the seeded hepatocytes in AL/XG capsules participated in spheroid formation after 2 days, whereas most hepatocytes in AL capsules remained as single cells and only a few cells began to form aggregates after 3 days. Intercellular molecule genes, such as connexin (Cx) 32 and E-cadherin, of hepatocyte spheroids in AL or AL/XG capsules were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Cx32 and E-cadherin genes in AL/XG capsules were more rapidly reexpressed and expressed, respectively, than in AL ones. The results suggest that the multicellular spheroid formation of hepatocytes can enhance the liver-specific functions in the three-dimensional space in the presence of XG as a new synthetic ECM owing to the specific interaction between the galactose moieties of XG and asialoglycoprotein receptors of hepatocytes.
Refining of autohydrolysis liquors for manufacturing xylooligosaccharides: evaluation of operational strategies.	When xylan-containing lignocellulosic materials are subjected to the action of heat in an aqueous medium (autohydrolysis reaction) under suitable operational conditions, the heterocyclic ether bonds of the polymeric chain are split to give xylooligosaccharides (XO) and a variety of other products derived from hemicelluloses, lignin and extractives. For product applications requiring high-purity XO, subsequent purification stages have to be implemented. Various strategies have been evaluated for refining Eucalyptus wood autohydrolysis liquors, including the two-stage reaction, precipitation and solvent extraction of freeze-dried, dewaxed liquors. Data on the degree of xylooligosaccharide recovery as well as on the composition of the isolates (measured in terms of hemicellulose-derived products and non-saccharide products) are provided for the various operational procedures assayed.
Modification of cellulose fiber surfaces by use of a lipase and a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase.	A strategy for the modification of cellulose fiber surfaces was developed that used the ability of Candida antarctica lipase B (CALB) to acylate carbohydrates with high regioselectivity, combined with the transglycosylating activity of the Populus tremula x P. tremuloides xyloglucan endotransglycosylase 16A (PttXET16A). Xyloglucan oligosaccharides (XGOs) prepared from tamarind xyloglucan were acylated with CALB as a catalyst and vinyl stearate or gamma-thiobutyrolactone as acyl donors to produce carbohydrate molecules with hydrophobic alkyl chains or reactive sulfhydryl groups, respectively. The modified XGOs were shown to act as glycosyl acceptors in the transglycosylation reaction catalyzed by PttXET16A and could therefore be incorporated into high M(r) xyloglucan chains. The resulting xyloglucan molecules exhibited a high affinity for cellulose surfaces, which enabled the essentially irreversible introduction of fatty acid esters or thiol groups to cellulose fibers.
Arabinoxylan gels: impact of the feruloylation degree on their structure and properties.	Arabinoxylan (AX) samples of decreasing ferulic acid (FA) contents were chemically prepared from water-extractable wheat arabinoxylans without affecting their other structural properties. Gels were obtained from these partially feruloylated WEAX (PF-WEAX) by enzymatic covalent cross-linking of FA leading to the formation of diferulic (di-FA) and tri-ferulic acid (tri-FA). WEAX gelling ability was found related to the WEAX FA content whereas the gel structure and properties depended on the density of newly formed covalent cross-links. FA content of WEAX ranging from 1.4 to 2.3 microg/mg AX gave gels with di-FA cross-links contents from 0.20 to 0.43 microg/mg AX and G' values from 5 to 44 Pa. For WEAX gels with initial FA contents from 1.6 to 2.3 microg/mg AX, average mesh size ranging from 331 to 263 nm were calculated from swelling experiments. Cross-linking densities of gels, determined from swelling experiments, were higher than those that could be theoretically estimated from the di-FA and tri-FA content of WEAX gels. This result suggests that, in addition to di-FA and tri-FA, higher ferulate cross-linking and physical entanglements would contribute to the final WEAX gel structure.
Innovative kinetic and thermodynamic analysis of a purified superactive xylanase from Scopulariopsis sp.	Two isoenzymes of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) from Scopulariopsis sp. were purified by a combination of ammonium sulfate precipitation, hydrophobic interaction, and anion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography. The native mol wts of the least acidic xylanase (LAX) and the highly acidic xylanase (HAX) were 25 and 144 kDa and the subunit mol wts were 25 and 36 kDa, respectively. The kcat values of LAX and HAX for oat-spelt xylan at 40 degrees C, pH 6.5, were 95,000 and 9900 min-1 and the Km values of LAX and HAX were 30 and 3.3 mg/mL. The thermodynamic activation parameters of xylan hydrolysis showed that the high activity of LAX when compared with HAX was not owing to a reduction in DeltaH# but was entropically driven. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of the degradation products showed that LAX formed both xylotrioses and xylobioses, but HAX predominantly formed xylotrioses. The half-lives of LAX and HAX at 50 degrees C in 50 mM 2-N-morpholino ethanesulfonic acid (MES), pH 6.5 buffer were 267 and 69 min, respectively. Thermodynamic analysis showed that at lower temperatures, the increased thermostability of LAX (DeltaH#=306 kJ/mol) compared with HAX (DeltaH#=264 kJ/mol) was owing to more noncovalent surface interactions. At higher temperatures, LAX (DeltaS*=-232 J/[mol.K]) was more thermostable than HAX (DeltaS*=490 J/[mol.K]) owing to a more ordered transition-state conformation. An energy-activity diagram was introduced showing that kcat/Km does not successfully explain the true kinetic behavior of both xylanase isoenzymes. The simultaneously thermostable and highly active LAX could be utilized in biotechnological processes involving xylan hydrolysis.
Immunological effects of partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan from corn husk in mice.	The effect of oral administration of partially hydrolyzed water-soluble corn husk arabinoxylan (CHAX), the average molecular weight of which is about 53 kDa, on immunopotentiating activity was investigated in mice. Oral administration of CHAX to healthy mice significantly augmented the production of interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon (IFN)-gamma with a slight increase in IL-4 in mitogen-induced proliferation of spleen cells. Natural killer (NK) cell activity in spleen cells from mice, which were transplanted tumor and administrated CHAX, was augmented about 2-fold. In model mice of atopic dermatitis, the average ear thickness of mice administrated CHAX was induced by dinitrophenyl-fluorobenzene (DNFB) after injection of an anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-IgE monoclonal antibody was much smaller than that in control animals. These results suggest that CHAX has the ability to increase the level of immunopotentiating activity without causing over response of immunological reaction even if it is administrated orally to mice.
Purification and properties of a low molecular weight 1,4-beta-d-glucan glucohydrolase having one active site for carboxymethyl cellulose and xylan from an alkalothermophilic Thermomonospora sp.	A low molecular weight 1,4-beta-D-glucan glucohydrolase from an extracellular culture filtrate of Thermomonospora sp. was purified to homogeneity. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was 14.2 kDa by MALDI-TOF analysis and is in agreement with SDS-PAGE and gel filtration chromatography. The purified enzyme exhibited both endocarboxymethyl cellulase and endoxylanase activities. A kinetic method was employed to study the active site of the enzyme that hydrolyzes both carboxymethyl cellulose and xylan. The experimental data coincide well with the theoretical values calculated for the case of a single active site. Conformation and microenvironment at the active site was probed with fluorescent chemo-affinity labeling using o-phthalaldehyde as the chemical initiator. Formation of isoindole derivative resulted in complete inactivation of the enzyme to hydrolyze both xylan and CMC as judged by fluorescence studies corroborating a single active site for the hydrolysis of xylan and CMC.
Flax (Linum usitatissimum) seed cake: a potential source of high molecular weight arabinoxylans?	Water-soluble polysaccharides were extracted from flaxseed cake and analyzed. Two groups were separated by anion-exchange chromatography. The first one (nonretained) was the major fraction (83%) and possessed a high molecular weight (HMW) arabinoxylan (56%) with an Ara/Xyl ratio of 0.32 and an M(w) of 846 000. This polymer was accompanied by a smaller galactoglucan (44%), with an M(w) of 6.5 x 10(4). The latter group (17%), retained by the gel, was further described as a HMW pectin heterogeneous group, with, respectively, 3.1 x 10(5) and 1.3 x 10(5). Despite the presence of HMW arabinoxylans, the investigation of rheological flow sweep at the concentration of 2% (w/v) has shown a slight shear thinning behavior with a small zero-rate viscosity at 9.6 Pa.s.
Kinetic modeling of brewery's spent grain autohydrolysis.	Isothermal autohydrolysis treatments of brewery's spent grain were used as a method for hemicellulose solubilization and xylo-oligosaccharides production. The time course of the concentrations of residual hemicelluloses (made up of xylan and arabinan) and reaction products were determined in experiments carried out at temperatures in the range from 150 to 190 degrees C using liquid-to-solid ratios of 8 and 10 g/g. To model the experimental findings concerning to brewery's spent grain autohydrolysis several kinetic models based on sequential pseudo-homogeneous first-order reactions were tested. Xylan and arabinan were assumed to yield oligosaccharides, monosaccharides (xylose or arabinose), furfural, and other decomposition products in consecutive reaction steps. The models proposed provide a satisfactory interpretation of the hydrolytic conversion of xylan and arabinan. An additional model merging the two proposed models for xylan and arabinan degradation assuming that furfural was formed from both pentoses was developed and the results obtained are discussed. The dependence of the calculated kinetic coefficients on temperature was established using Arrhenius-type equations.
Optimization of dilute-acid pretreatment of corn stover using a high-solids percolation reactor.	We have previously demonstrated that pretreatment of corn stover with dilute sulfuric acid can achieve high digestibility and efficient recovery of hemicellulose sugars with high yield and concentration. Further improvement of this process was sought in this work. A modification was made in the operation of the percolation reactor that the reactor is preheated under atmospheric pressure to remove moisture that causes autohydrolysis. This eliminated sugar decomposition during the preheating stage and led to a considerable improvement in overall sugar yield. In addition, liquid throughput was minimized to the extent that only one reactor void volume of liquid was collected. This was done to attain a high xylose concentration in the hydrolyzate. The optimum reaction and operating conditions were identified wherein near quantitative enzymatic digestibilities are obtained with enzyme loading of 15 FPU/g glucan. With a reduced enzyme loading of 5 FPU/g glucan, the enzymatic digestibility was decreased, but still reached a level of 92%. Decomposition of carbohydrates was extremely low as indicated by the measured glucan and xylan mass closures (recovered sugar plus unreacted) which were 98% and 94%, respectively. The data obtained in this work indicate that the digestibility is related to the extent of xylan removal.
High resolution 13C-n.m.r. spectroscopy of 'mixed linkage' xylans.	Three xylan fractions, obtained by stepwise precipitation with ethanol, were analysed by 75-MHz 13C-n.m.r. spectroscopy. Diad frequencies, determined from the C-2 resonances, show that the (1----3)-linkages are interspersed throughout the chain rather than grouped contiguously. This type of distribution is in agreement with a random coil conformation and with the constancy of the optical rotation in solvents of different ionic strength and chaotropic power. These diad frequencies were compared with the theoretical values calculated for a random distribution from the ratio of (1----4)-:(1----3)-linkages in the 1H-n.m.r. spectra, and from the methylation analysis for one of the fractions.
Ultrasound-assisted extraction of xyloglucan from apple pomace.	Ultrasound-assisted extraction was evaluated as a simpler and more effective alternative to conventional extraction method for the isolation of xyloglucan from apple pomace. The apple pomace samples were extracted under indirect sonication in an ultrasound cleaning bath. The ultrasound extraction was compared with the conventional method, on the productions of xyloglucan. It was found that the ultrasound-assisted extraction of xyloglucan was about three times faster than the traditional extraction method. Response surface methodology was employed to study the effect of liquid:solid ratio, KOH concentration and ultrasound-assisted extraction time on the yield of xyloglucan from apple pomace. Regression analysis was performed on the data obtained. The most relevant variable was the quadratic of liquid:solid ratio. The coefficient determination (R(2)) was good for the second-order model. The optimum combination was determined as a liquid:solid ratio of 34.4:1 (v/w), a KOH concentration of 3.3 M and an ultrasound-assisted extraction time of 2.5 h.
Development and application of a suite of polysaccharide-degrading enzymes for analyzing plant cell walls.	To facilitate analysis of plant cell wall polysaccharide structure and composition, we cloned 74 genes encoding polysaccharide-degrading enzymes from Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus fumigatus, and Neurospora crassa and expressed the genes as secreted proteins with C-terminal Myc and 6x His tags. Most of the recombinant enzymes were active in enzyme assays, and optima for pH and temperature were established. A subset of the enzymes was used to fragment polysaccharides from the irregular xylem 9 (irx9) mutant of Arabidopsis. The analysis revealed a decrease in the abundance of xylan in the mutant, indicating that the IRX9 gene, which encodes a putative family 43 glycosyltransferase, is required for xylan synthesis.
Maize pollen coat xylanase facilitates pollen tube penetration into silk during sexual reproduction.	Cell wall hydrolases are well documented to be present on pollen, but their roles on the stigma during sexual reproduction have not been previously demonstrated. We explored the function of the tapetum-synthesized xylanase, ZmXYN1, on maize (Zea mays L.) pollen. Transgenic lines (xyl-less) containing little or no xylanase in the pollen coat were generated with use of an antisense construct of the xylanase gene-coding region driven by the XYN1 gene promoter. Xyl-less and wild-type plants had similar vegetative growth. Electron microscopy revealed no appreciable morphological difference in anther cells and pollen between xyl-less lines and the wild type, whereas immunofluorescence microscopy and biochemical analyses indicated an absence of xylanase on xyl-less pollen. Xyl-less pollen germinated as efficiently as wild-type pollen in vitro in a liquid medium but less so on gel media of increasing solidity or on silk, which is indicative of partial impaired water uptake. Once germinated in vitro or on silk, the xyl-less and wild-type pollen tubes elongated at comparable rates. Tubes of germinated xyl-less pollen on silk did not penetrate into the silk as efficiently as tubes of wild-type pollen, and this lower efficiency could be overcome by the addition of xylanase to the silk. For wild-type pollen, coat xylanase activity on oat spelled xylan in vitro and tube penetration into silk were inhibited by xylose but not glucose. The overall findings indicate that maize pollen coat xylanase facilitates pollen tube penetration into silk via enzymatic xylan hydrolysis.
Hydrophobic surfaces in oligosaccharides: linear dextrins are amphiphilic chains.	Polysaccharide chains are usually considered to be highly hydrophilic, since they have no obvious nonpolar moieties in them. Yet, it is possible to realise conformations in these chains wherein all the hydroxy groups are disposed in one side or face of the chain and the hydrogens disposed in the other. We experimentally demonstrate that such an amphiphilic surface is present in linear oligomeric dextrins, i.e., alpha-1,4-linked D-glucosides, but not in alpha-1,6-D-glucosides (dextrans) or in beta-1,4-D-glucosides (cellulose). This amphiphilicity is generated as a consequence of the stereochemical constraints, which vary with the structure of the sugar and with the type of linkage. Oligosaccharide chains that can adopt incipient helical structures might display amphiphilicity. This property might be relevant to intermolecular recognition on cell surfaces, lectin-sugar binding, antigen-antibody interactions and the like, and might be manifested more in heteromolecular recognition process than as homomolecular self-aggregation.
Synthesis and characterization of xylan-coated magnetite microparticles.	This work evaluates an experimental set-up to coat superparamagnetic particles in order to protect them from gastric dissolution. First, magnetic particles were produced by coprecipitation of iron salts in alkaline medium. Afterwards, an emulsification/cross-linking reaction was carried out in order to produce magnetic polymeric particles. The sample characterization was performed by X-ray powder diffraction, laser scattering particle size analysis, optical microscopy, thermogravimetric analysis and vibrating sample magnetometry. In vitro dissolution tests at gastric pH were evaluated for both magnetic particles and magnetic polymeric particles. The characterization data have demonstrated the feasibility of the presented method to coat, and protect magnetite particles from gastric dissolution. Such systems may be very promising for oral administration.
A Barley xyloglucan xyloglucosyl transferase covalently links xyloglucan, cellulosic substrates, and (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucans.	Molecular interactions between wall polysaccharides, which include cellulose and a range of noncellulosic polysaccharides such as xyloglucans and (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucans, are fundamental to cell wall properties. These interactions have been assumed to be noncovalent in nature in most cases. Here we show that a highly purified barley xyloglucan xyloglucosyl transferase HvXET5 (EC 2.4.1.207), a member of the GH16 group of glycoside hydrolases, catalyzes the in vitro formation of covalent linkages between xyloglucans and cellulosic substrates and between xyloglucans and (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucans. The rate of covalent bond formation catalyzed by HvXET5 with hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC) is comparable with that on tamarind xyloglucan, whereas that with (1,3; 1,4)-beta-D-glucan is significant but slower. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometric analyses showed that oligosaccharides released from the fluorescent HEC:xyloglucan conjugate by a specific (1,4)-beta-D-glucan endohydrolase consisted of xyloglucan substrate with one, two, or three glucosyl residues attached. Ancillary peaks contained hydroxyethyl substituents (m/z 45) and confirmed that the parent material consisted of HEC covalently linked with xyloglucan. Similarly, partial hydrolysis of the (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucan:xyloglucan conjugate by a specific (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucan endohydrolase revealed the presence of a series of fluorescent oligosaccharides that consisted of the fluorescent xyloglucan acceptor substrate linked covalently with 2-6 glucosyl residues. These findings raise the possibility that xyloglucan endo-transglucosylases could link different polysaccharides in vivo and hence influence cell wall strength, flexibility, and porosity.
Mode of action of glycoside hydrolase family 5 glucuronoxylan xylanohydrolase from Erwinia chrysanthemi.	The mode of action of xylanase A from a phytopathogenic bacterium, Erwinia chrysanthemi, classified in glycoside hydrolase family 5, was investigated on xylooligosaccharides and polysaccharides using TLC, MALDI-TOF MS and enzyme treatment with exoglycosidases. The hydrolytic action of xylanase A was found to be absolutely dependent on the presence of 4-O-methyl-D-glucuronosyl (MeGlcA) side residues in both oligosaccharides and polysaccharides. Neutral linear beta-1,4-xylooligosaccharides and esterified aldouronic acids were resistant towards enzymatic action. Aldouronic acids of the structure MeGlcA(3)Xyl(3) (aldotetraouronic acid), MeGlcA(3)Xyl(4) (aldopentaouronic acid) and MeGlcA(3)Xyl(5) (aldohexaouronic acid) were cleaved with the enzyme to give xylose from the reducing end and products shorter by one xylopyranosyl residue: MeGlcA(2)Xyl(2), MeGlcA(2)Xyl(3) and MeGlcA(2)Xyl(4). As a rule, the enzyme attacked the second glycosidic linkage following the MeGlcA branch towards the reducing end. Depending on the distribution of MeGlcA residues on the glucuronoxylan main chain, the enzyme generated series of shorter and longer aldouronic acids of backbone polymerization degree 3-14, in which the MeGlcA is linked exclusively to the second xylopyranosyl residue from the reducing end. Upon incubation with beta-xylosidase, all acidic hydrolysis products of acidic oligosaccharides and hardwood glucuronoxylans were converted to aldotriouronic acid, MeGlcA(2)Xyl(2). In agreement with this mode of action, xylose and unsubstituted oligosaccharides were essentially absent in the hydrolysates. The E. chrysanthemi xylanase A thus appears to be an excellent biocatalyst for the production of large acidic oligosaccharides from glucuronoxylans as well as an invaluable tool for determination of the distribution of MeGlcA residues along the main chain of this major plant hemicellulose.
Functional characterization of xyloglucan glycosynthases from GH7, GH12, and GH16 scaffolds.	Glycosynthases, hydrolytically inactive mutant glycosidases that catalyze glycosylation reactions using glycosyl fluoride donor substrates, are emerging as useful tools for the synthesis of large, complex polysaccharides [Faijes, M.; Planas, A. Carbohydr. Res. 2007, 342, 1581-1594]. Guided by wild-type xyloglucanase activity, we have produced and characterized new glycosynthases for the synthesis of xyloglucan oligo- and polysaccharides, based on family GH7, GH12, and GH16 scaffolds. The Humicola insolens GH7 glycosynthase, HiCel7B E197S, is capable of synthesizing nongalactosylated, XXXG-based homoxyloglucan up to M(w) 60,000 [G = Glcβ(1→4); X = Xylα(1→6)Glcβ(1→4); L = Galβ(1→2)Xylα(1→6)Glcβ(1→4)], which is among the largest products so far obtained with glycosynthase technology. Novel glycosynthases based on the GH16 xyloglucan hydrolase from Tropaeolum majus (nasturtium), TmNXG1, are capable of synthesizing XLLG-based xyloglucan oligosaccharides at rates feasible for preparative synthesis, thus providing an essential expansion of product range. Finally, a new glycosynthase based on the recently characterized GH12 xyloglucanase from Bacillus licheniformis, BlXG12 E155A, can perform the condensation of xyloglucosyl fluorides, albeit at poor rates. Altogether, the high catalytic efficiency demonstrated by HiCel7B E197S and the extended product range provided by TmNXG1 E94A are key achievements toward a robust and versatile method for the preparative synthesis of homogeneous xyloglucans with regular substitution patterns not available in nature. Such compounds enable in vitro experimental studies regarding the role of particular structural elements for xyloglucan properties and its interaction with cellulose.
Comprehensive multidetector HPSEC study on solution properties of cereal arabinoxylans in aqueous and DMSO solutions.	The water-soluble arabinoxylans from wheat flour (high, medium, and low viscosity samples) and rye flour (high viscosity sample) were characterized by (1)H NMR spectroscopy and HPSEC with refractive index, light scattering, and viscometric detectors. These cereal arabinoxylans have recently been used as model arabinoxylans in various studies, but their solution properties have not been previously investigated. In this study, two HPSEC eluent systems were used: the water-based system and DMSO-based system. DMSO seemed to be a better solvent than water, especially for arabinoxylans containing a low amount of arabinose substituents. (1)H NMR spectroscopy indicated the structural differences between the analyzed arabinoxylan samples that also affected the hydrodynamic parameters obtained with HPSEC. Influence of arabinose side groups on the solution conformation of arabinoxylans could not be excluded based on our data, despite the role of arabinose substituents being questioned in previous investigations concerning arabinoxylan conformation in solution.
A novel L-fuco-4-O-methyl-D-glucurono-D-xylan from Hyptis suaveolens.	The acidic polysaccharide from the seed-coat mucilage of Hyptis suaveolens is a highly branched L-fuco-4-O-methyl-D-glucurono-D-xylan for which a structure is proposed having a 4-linked beta-D-xylan backbone carrying side chains of single 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucuronic acid residues at O-2 and 2-O-L-fucopyranosyl-D-xylopyranose units at O-3. The structural analysis involves base-catalyzed beta-elimination of uronic acid residues from the methylated glycan followed by degradation using a modified Svensson oxidation-elimination sequence.
Xylan-based nanoparticles: prodrugs for ibuprofen release.	Esterification of xylan with ibuprofen via activiation of the carboxylic acid with N,N'-carbonyldiimidazole (CDI) yields products of high drug loadings. Subsequent sulfation of xylan ibuprofen esters using the gentle agent SO(3)/DMF was successfully carried out in order to modify hydrophobicity of the xylan esters. The structure of the novel xylan esters was evaluated by means of NMR spectroscopy. The resulting xylan derivatives self assemble into spherical nanoparticles with mean diameters ranging from 162 to 472 nm. Preliminary stability measurements indicate that hydrolytic stability decreases with increase in degree of substitution of sulfate groups. Thus, a new concept toward improved drug delivery from polysaccharide-based nanoparticles can be established here.
Fast enzymatic saccharification of switchgrass after pretreatment with ionic liquids.	The pretreatment of cellulose using ionic liquids (ILs) has been shown to be an effective method for improving the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose; this technique affords a fast and complete saccharification of cellulose into reducing sugars (Dadi et al., Biotechnol Bioeng. 2006; 95:904-910; Liu and Chen, Chinese Sci Bull. 2006; 51:2432-2436; Zhao et al., J Biotechnol. 2009; 139:47-54). Motivated by these advances, this study examines the effect of IL-pretreatment on the enzymatic hydrolysis of purified xylan (as a model system of hemicellulose) and switchgrass (as a real lignocellulose). The IL-pretreatment resulted in no improvement in the hydrolysis of xylan. The likely reason is that pure xylan has a low degree of polymerization (DP), and is readily biodegraded even without any pretreatment. However, in real cellulosic materials (such as switchgrass), xylan is entrapped within the cellulosic matrix, and cannot be conveniently accessed by enzymes. Our data demonstrate that the IL-pretreatment of switchgrass significantly improved the enzymatic saccharification of both cellulose (96% D-glucose yield in 24 h) and xylan (63% D-xylose yield in 24 h). The compositional analysis of switchgrass suggests a lower lignin content after IL-pretreatment. In addition, the infrared spectrum of regenerated switchgrass indicates a lower substrate crystallinity, whereas the enzyme adsorption isotherm further implies that the regenerated substrate is more accessible to enzymes. This study has further confirmed that IL-pretreatment is an effective tool in enhancing the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic biomass, and allowing a more complete saccharification.
Xylans from Scinaia hatei: Structural features, sulfation and anti-HSV activity.	Natural compounds offer interesting pharmacological perspectives for antiviral drug development with regard to broad-spectrum antiviral properties and novel modes of action. In this study, we have analyzed alkali-extracted xylan of Scinaia hatei. Alkali extraction of this red alga yielded a xylan shown to have a molecular mass of 120kDa and a linear structure of (1-->4)-linked beta-d-xylopyranosyl residues. Derivatives (S1, S2, S3 and S4) generated by chemical sulfation from this macromolecule had degree of sulfation between 0.93 and 1.95, and contained strong anti-HSV activity with inhibitory concentration 50% (IC(50)) from 0.22 to 1.37mug/ml. Furthermore, they had no direct inactivating effect on virions in a virucidal assay. Sulfate groups account for their in vitro antiviral activity. Interestingly, sulfated xylans already exerted anti-HSV activity when only pre-incubated with the cultured cells prior to infection, thus pointing to a main inhibitory effect on viral entry.
Effect of Eriochrome Black T on the gelatinization of xyloglucan investigated using rheological measurement and release behavior of Eriochrome Black T from xyloglucan gel matrices.	A novel gel system was obtained by mixing aqueous solutions of tamarind seed xyloglucan (TSX) and Eriochrome Black T (EBT), an antiangiogenic compound. The shear-viscosity flow curves revealed that all the studies mixtures displayed a shear thinning behavior. Viscosity increased with increasing EBT concentrations. According to frequency sweep tests, mixtures at EBT concentration of 1.30% and 2.50% (w/v) in 1% (w/v) TSX formed a weak gel. The time sweep tests revealed that these mixtures remained as sol at room temperature (25 degrees C) for a long period of time but turned into gel in a short time at body temperature (37 degrees C). The in vitro EBT release profiles demonstrated sustained release of EBT. Loading concentration of EBT affected the gel strength and consequently the release mechanism of EBT. According to release kinetic analyses, the release profiles of 1.30% and 2.50% (w/v) EBT systems occur through an anomalous mechanism and Fickian diffusion, respectively. In conclusion, these EBT-TSX systems appear to be suitable as injectable implants for sustained delivery of EBT at a site of application, and as such they may be beneficial for the future treatment of solid malignant tumors.
Improved colloidal stability of bacterial cellulose nanocrystal suspensions for the elaboration of spin-coated cellulose-based model surfaces.	Well-dispersed suspensions are a prerequisite when preparing smooth model surfaces based on neutral bacterial cellulose nanocrystals (BCNs). However, neutral nanocrystal suspensions present pronounced particle aggregation. Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or xyloglucan (XG) was therefore added to aggregated BCN suspensions. Turbidity measurements, polysaccharide content, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis revealed that aggregation of BCNs in CMC/BCN and XG/BCN suspensions is dependent on the concentration of CMC and XG in the suspensions. CMC enhances BCN dispersion above the concentration ratio of 0.05. In the case of XG, a better colloidal stability is observed above the concentration ratio of 0.5. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) investigations demonstrated that cellulose-based model surfaces, spin-coated from CMC/BCN or XG/BCN solutions, exhibited more uniform topography and less roughness than the reference BCN model surface. 
Characterization of oligomeric xylan structures from corn fiber resistant to pretreatment and simultaneous saccharification and fermentation.	Corn fiber, a byproduct from the corn industry, would be a good source for bioethanol production if the hemicellulose, consisting of polymeric glucoronoarabinoxylans, can be degraded into fermentable sugars. Structural knowledge of the hemicellulose is needed to improve the enzymatic hydrolyses of corn fiber. Oligosaccharides that resisted a mild acid pretreatment and subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis, representing 50% of the starting material, were fractionated on reversed phase and size exclusion material and characterized. The oligosaccharides within each fraction were highly substituted by various compounds. Oligosaccharides containing uronic acid were accumulated in two polar fractions unless also a feruloyl group was present. Feruloylated oligosaccharides, containing mono- and/or diferulic acid, were accumulated within four more apolar fractions. All fractions contained high amounts of acetyl substituents. The data show that complex xylan oligomers are present in which ferulic acid, diferulates, acetic acid, galactose, arabinose, and uronic acids were combined within an oligomer. Hypothetical structures are discussed, demonstrating which enzyme activities are lacking to fully degrade corn glucuronoarabinoxylans. 
On hexenuronic acid (HexA) removal and mediator coupling to pulp fiber in the laccase/mediator treatment.	Flax soda/AQ pulps were treated with different fungal laccase-mediator combinations followed by physical and chemical characterization of the pulps to obtain a thorough understanding of the laccase/mediator effects on hexenuronic acid (HexA) removal and the coupling of mediator onto pulps for fiber functionalization. Large differences were found and the presence of lauryl gallate (LG) during Trametes villosa laccase (TvL) treatment (TvL+LG) resulted in a much larger reduction of pulp-linked HexA than the combination of p-coumaric acid (PCA) and Pycnoporus cinnabarinus laccase (PcL). A major portion of LG became attached to the pulp as revealed by an increase in the kappa number and further confirmed by thioacidolysis and (1)H NMR analysis of solubilized pulp fractions. Additional experiments with other chemical pulps and isolated pulp xylan and lignin revealed that HexA seems to be the sole pulp component attacked by TvL+LG. As a substrate for TvL, the reaction preference order is PCA>HexA>LG.
A pH/enzyme-responsive polymer film consisting of Eudragit FS 30 D and arabinoxylane as a potential material formulation for colon-specific drug delivery system.	Polymer film based on pH-dependent Eudragit FS 30 D acrylic polymer in association with arabinoxylane, a polysaccharide issued from gum psyllium, was produced by way of solvent casting. Physical-chemical characterization of the polymer film samples was performed by means of thermogravimetry (TGA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Furthermore, water-equilibrium swelling index (I(s)) and weight loss of the films in KCl buffer solution of pH 1.2, in KH(2)PO(4) buffer solution of pH 5.0, or in KH(2)PO(4) buffer solution of pH 5.0 consisting of 4% enzyme Pectinex 3X-L (w/v) were also carried out for the film characterization. No chemical interactions between the Eudragit FS 30 D and the arabinoxylane polymer chains were evidenced, thus suggesting that the film-forming polymer structure was obtained from a physical mixture of both polymers. The arabinoxylane-loader films showed a more pronounced weight loss after their immersion in buffer solution containing enzyme Pectinex 3X-L. The introduction of the arabinoxylane makes the film more susceptible to undergo an enzymatic degradation. This meant that the enzyme-dependent propriety issued from the arabinoxylane has been imprinted into the film formulation. This type of polymer film is an interesting system for applications in colon-specific drug delivery system.
Arabinoxylan-oligosaccharides (AXOS) affect the protein/carbohydrate fermentation balance and microbial population dynamics of the Simulator of Human Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem.	Arabinoxylan-oligosaccharides (AXOS) are a recently newly discovered class of candidate prebiotics as - depending on their structure - they are fermented in different regions of gastrointestinal tract. This can have an impact on the protein/carbohydrate fermentation balance in the large intestine and, thus, affect the generation of potentially toxic metabolites in the colon originating from proteolytic activity. In this study, we screened different AXOS preparations for their impact on the in vitro intestinal fermentation activity and microbial community structure. Short-term fermentation experiments with AXOS with an average degree of polymerization (avDP) of 29 allowed part of the oligosaccharides to reach the distal colon, and decreased the concentration of proteolytic markers, whereas AXOS with lower avDP were primarily fermented in the proximal colon. Additionally, prolonged supplementation of AXOS with avDP 29 to the Simulator of Human Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem (SHIME) reactor decreased levels of the toxic proteolytic markers phenol and p-cresol in the two distal colon compartments and increased concentrations of beneficial short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) in all colon vessels (25-48%). Denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis indicated that AXOS supplementation only slightly modified the total microbial community, implying that the observed effects on fermentation markers are mainly caused by changes in fermentation activity. Finally, specific quantitative PCR (qPCR) analysis showed that AXOS supplementation significantly increased the amount of health-promoting lactobacilli as well as of Bacteroides-Prevotella and Clostridium coccoides-Eubacterium rectale groups. These data allow concluding that AXOS are promising candidates to modulate the microbial metabolism in the distal colon.
Both substrate hydrolysis and secondary substrate binding determine xylanase mobility as assessed by FRAP.	Xylanases (EC 3.2.1.8) are enzymes that can hydrolyze the xylan backbone internally. Therefore, they are important for biomass breakdown and they are also often added in various biotechnological applications. In this study, the relationship between their substrate binding affinity and hydrolysis, on the one hand, and their movement over natural substrates, on the other hand, was investigated. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments using different Bacillus subtilis xylanase A (XBS) mutants were conducted on water-unextractable wheat flour arabinoxylan (WU-AX) and insoluble oat spelt xylan (OSX). To assess the importance of substrate hydrolysis, FRAP of a catalytically inactive mutant was compared to that of the wild-type enzyme. For the wild-type enzyme, substrate binding and a complete recovery of fluorescence after photobleaching was observed on both substrates. For the inactive mutant, however, substrate binding but no fluorescence recovery was observed on WU-AX, while very slow recovery was observed on OSX. Furthermore, the importance of substrate binding to a secondary xylan binding site (SBS) for enzyme mobility was studied by testing two mutants with a modified SBS (N54W-N141Q and G56A-T183A-W185A) that showed different behavior on the tested substrates. On OSX, the two modified enzymes both showed higher mobility than the wild-type enzyme. On WU-AX, in contrast, the N54W-N141Q mutant displayed a lower mobility than the wild-type enzyme, while the G56A-T183A-W185A mutant showed higher mobility. The results clearly demonstrate that both substrate hydrolysis and substrate targeting are key factors for XBS mobility.
Beta-xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus and its biobleaching application.	Thermomyces lanuginosus is thermophilic fungus in which was isolated from widespread material. A high number of this fungus was found in composts especially mushroom composts. This fungus has been reported to produce a high level xylanase when cultivated in the medium containing xylan and corn cob as a carbon source. Various strains of T. lanuginosus produced a single xylanase with molecular masses in range of 22.0 to 29.0 kDa. Pure beta-xylanase obtained from various strains of this fungus exhibited highly stability at high temperature and wide pH range. The optimal temperature and optimal pH of pure beta-xylanase from various strains of T. lanuginosus have been reported in range of 60-75 degrees C and pH 6.0-7.0, respectively. The great thermal stability was resulting from the present of hydrophilic amino acid on beta sheet of the surface of xylanase structure. Moreover, the relatedness between high and low xylanase producing strains can be distinguish by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Based on nucleotide sequences and T. lanuginosus xylanase gene has been classified to be a member of family 11 (formerly known as cellulase family G) glycosyl hydrolases. This enzyme was endo-type xylanase having main product are xylose and xylobiose. The expression of xylanase gene from T. lanuginosus was achieved in Escherichia coli and methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. The ability of T. lanuginosus in which produced large amount of high thermos stable xylanase has made this fungus to be a source of xylanase production for biobleaching in pulp and paper process.
Trans-α-xylosidase and trans-β-galactosidase activities, widespread in plants, modify and stabilize xyloglucan structures.	Cell-wall components are hydrolysed by numerous plant glycosidase and glycanase activities. We investigated whether plant enzymes also modify xyloglucan structures by transglycosidase activities. Diverse angiosperm extracts exhibited transglycosidase activities that progressively transferred single sugar residues between xyloglucan heptasaccharide (XXXG or its reduced form, XXXGol) molecules, at 16 μM and above, creating octa- to decasaccharides plus smaller products. We measured remarkably high transglycosylation:hydrolysis ratios under optimized conditions. To identify the transferred monosaccharide(s), we devised a dual-labelling strategy in which a neutral radiolabelled oligosaccharide (donor substrate) reacted with an amino-labelled non-radioactive oligosaccharide (acceptor substrate), generating radioactive cationic products. For example, 37 μM [Xyl-³H]XXXG plus 1 mM XXLG-NH₂ generated ³H-labelled cations, demonstrating xylosyl transfer, which exceeded xylosyl hydrolysis 1.6- to 7.3-fold, implying the presence of enzymes that favour transglycosylation. The transferred xylose residues remained α-linked but were relatively resistant to hydrolysis by plant enzymes. Driselase digestion of the products released a trisaccharide (α-[³H]xylosyl-isoprimeverose), indicating that a new xyloglucan repeat unit had been formed. In similar assays, [Gal-³H]XXLG and [Gal-³H]XLLG (but not [Fuc-³H]XXFG) yielded radioactive cations. Thus plants exhibit trans-α-xylosidase and trans-β-galactosidase (but not trans-α-fucosidase) activities that graft sugar residues from one xyloglucan oligosaccharide to another. Reconstructing xyloglucan oligosaccharides in this way may alter oligosaccharin activities or increase their longevity in vivo. Trans-α-xylosidase activity also transferred xylose residues from xyloglucan oligosaccharides to long-chain hemicelluloses (xyloglucan, water-soluble cellulose acetate, mixed-linkage β-glucan, glucomannan and arabinoxylan). With xyloglucan as acceptor substrate, such an activity potentially affects the polysaccharide's suitability as a substrate for xyloglucan endotransglucosylase action and thereby modulates cell expansion. We conclude that certain proteins annotated as glycosidases can function as transglycosidases.
Protective effect of low molecular fraction of MGN-3, a modified arabinoxylan from rice bran, on acute liver injury by inhibition of NF-κB and JNK/MAPK expression.	D-Galactosamine (GalN) induces acute hepatitis in experimental animals; this hepatitis has been shown to be suppressed by oral or intraperitoneal administration of modified arabinoxylan from rice bran (MGN-3), and active low molecular fraction isolated from MGN-3 (LMW). We previously reported that this protective mechanism is mediated in part by downregulation of interleukin-18 (IL-18). The present study shows for the first time that nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and CD14 are involved in the suppressive action of LMW on GalN-induced hepatitis. Wistar rats (aged 4 weeks, SLC) were intraperitoneally treated with either MGN-3 or LMW. Then, rats were given GalN at 400mg/kg at 1h after the initial treatment. The serum activity of transaminases (ALT and AST) was significantly higher after GalN treatment; these changes were attenuated by MGN-3 and LMW. Furthermore, LMW abrogated inhibitor of κB kinase (IκB) degradation induced by GalN, and this was associated with the inhibition of NF-κB activation. Moreover, phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) protein expression in the liver after GalN treatment was significantly higher, and LMW reduced this increase. We also found that GalN treatment induced TLR4 and CD14 mRNA expression, and LMW significantly inhibited CD14 mRNA expression. These results suggest that the suppressive effects of LMW on GalN-induced hepatitis are possibly related to inhibition of NF-κB, JNK phosphorylation and CD14 expression.
Enzymatic production of ferulic acid from defatted rice bran by using a combination of bacterial enzymes.	Ferulic acid (FA), which is present in the cell walls of some plants, is best known for its antioxidant property. By combining a commercial enzyme that shows FA esterase activity with several Streptomyces carbohydrate-hydrolyzing enzymes, we succeeded in enhancing the enzymatic production of FA from defatted rice bran. In particular, the combination of three xylanases, an α-L-arabinofuranosidase, and an acetyl xylan esterase from Streptomyces spp. produced the highest increase in the amount of released FAs among all the enzymes in the Streptomyces enzymes library. This enzyme combination also had an effect on FA production from other biomasses, such as raw rice bran, wheat bran, and corncob. 
Turning hardwood dissolving pulp polysaccharide residual material into barrier packaging.	Birch chips were subjected to pilot-scale pre-hydrolysis under various sets of conditions to mimic a pre-hydrolysis step in a dissolving pulp process. The process generates residual process liquor, a wood hydrolysate, and the treated chips may be directly utilized in a dissolving process. The wood hydrolysates were rich in xylan and utilized in the production of fully renewable films that provide very good oxygen barrier function and mechanical integrity also at high relative humidity. Membrane filtration had an effect in enriching higher molecular weight fractions from the hydrolysates, but noteworthy, a hydrolysate used in the crude state without any membrane filtration performed just as well as upgraded fractions in forming films providing acceptable tensile properties and a good barrier against oxygen permeation.
Attachment of bacterial pathogens to a bacterial cellulose-derived plant cell wall model: a proof of concept.	This study aimed to establish, as a proof of concept, whether bacterial cellulose (BC)-derived plant cell wall models could be used to investigate foodborne bacterial pathogen attachment. Attachment of two strains each of Salmonella enterica and Listeria monocytogenes to four BC-derived plant cell wall models (namely, BC, BC-pectin [BCP], BC-xyloglucan [BCX], and BC-pectin-xyloglucan [BCPX]) was investigated. Chemical analysis indicated that the BCPX composite (31% cellulose, 45.6% pectin, 23.4% xyloglucan) had a composition typical of plant cell walls. The Salmonella strains attached in significantly (p<0.05) higher numbers (~6 log colony-forming units [CFU]/cm(2)) to the composites than the Listeria strains (~5 log CFU/cm(2)). Strain-specific differences were also apparent with one Salmonella strain, for example, attaching in significantly (p<0.05) higher numbers to the BCX composite than to the other composites. This study highlights the potential usefulness of these composites to understand attachment of foodborne bacteria to fresh produce.
Characteristics of α-L-arabinofuranosidase from Streptomyces sp I10-1 for production of L-arabinose from corn hull arabinoxylan.	Streptomyces sp I10-1 α-L-arabinofuranosidase efficiently produced L-arabinose from high arabinose-content corn hull arabinoxylan (ratio of arabinose to xylose, 0.6). The optimum pH at 40 °C was around 6, and the enzyme was stable from pH 5 to 11. The optimum temperature was 50 °C at pH 5, and the activity was stable at 40 °C. The enzymatic activity against corn hull arabinoxylan was 2.3 times higher than towards p-nitrophenyl-α-L-arabinofuranoside. Approximately 45% L-arabinose recovery was achieved from corn hull arabinoxylan. It was considered that L-arabinose residues not removed by the enzyme were attributable to those linked with ferulic acid. The open reading frame of the enzyme gene consisted of 1,224 bp, and the predicted peptide was 408 amino acids, which corresponded to a molecular size of 45, 248 Da. It was presumed that the smaller molecular size (31,000 Da) estimated on SDS-PAGE resulted from proteolysis by proteases. I10-1 α-L-arabinofuranosidase belongs to the Alpha-L-AF C superfamily, which is associated with glycoside hydrolase family 51, but the properties were unique.
Impact of pretreatment with dilute sulfuric acid under moderate temperature on hydrolysis of corn stover with two enzyme systems.	Pretreatment of corn stover with dilute sulfuric acid at moderate temperature was investigated, and glucan digestibility by Cellic CTec2 and Celluclast on the pretreated biomass was compared. Pretreatments were carried out from 60 to 180 min at the temperature from 105 to 135 °C, with acid concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 2% (w/v). Significant portion of xylan was removed during pretreatment, and the glucan digestibility by CTec2 was significantly better than that by Celluclast in all cases. Analysis showed that glucan digestibility by both two enzymes correlated directly with the extent of xylan removal in pretreatment. Confidence interval was built to give a more precise range of glucan conversion and to test the significant difference among pretreatment conditions. Response surface model was built to obtain the optimal pretreatment condition to achieve high glucan conversion after enzymatic hydrolysis. Considering the cost and energy savings, the optimal pretreatment condition of 1.75% acid for 160 min at 135 °C was determined, and glucan conversion can achieve the range from 72.86 to 76.69% at 95% confidence level after enzymatic hydrolysis, making total glucan recovery up to the range from 89.42 to 93.25%.
Purification and characterization of the xylanase produced by Jonesia denitrificans BN-13.	Jonesia denitrificans BN-13 produces six xylanases: Xyl1, Xyl2, Xyl3, Xyl4, Xyl5, and Xyl6; the Xyl4 was purified and characterized after two consecutive purification steps using ultrafiltration and anion exchange chromatography. The xylanase-specific activity was found to be 77 unit (U)/mg. The molecular weight of the Xyl4 estimated using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) revealed a monomeric isoenzyme of about 42 kDa. It showed an optimum pH value of 7.0 and a temperature of 50 °C. It was stable at 50 °C for 9.34 h. The enzyme showed to be activated by Mn(+2), β-mercaptoethanol, and dithiothreitol (DTT) with a high affinity towards birchwood xylan (with a K(m) of 1 mg ml(-1)) and hydrolysis of oat-spelt xylan with a K(m) of 1.85 mg ml(-1). The ability of binding to cellulose and/or xylan was also investigated.
Crystal structure and characterization of the glycoside hydrolase family 62 α-L-arabinofuranosidase from Streptomyces coelicolor.	α-L-arabinofuranosidase, which belongs to the glycoside hydrolase family 62 (GH62), hydrolyzes arabinoxylan but not arabinan or arabinogalactan. The crystal structures of several α-L-arabinofuranosidases have been determined, although the structures, catalytic mechanisms, and substrate specificities of GH62 enzymes remain unclear. To evaluate the substrate specificity of a GH62 enzyme, we determined the crystal structure of α-L-arabinofuranosidase, which comprises a carbohydrate-binding module family 13 domain at its N terminus and a catalytic domain at its C terminus, from Streptomyces coelicolor. The catalytic domain was a five-bladed β-propeller consisting of five radially oriented anti-parallel β-sheets. Sugar complex structures with l-arabinose, xylotriose, and xylohexaose revealed five subsites in the catalytic cleft and an l-arabinose-binding pocket at the bottom of the cleft. The entire structure of this GH62 family enzyme was very similar to that of glycoside hydrolase 43 family enzymes, and the catalytically important acidic residues found in family 43 enzymes were conserved in GH62. Mutagenesis studies revealed that Asp(202) and Glu(361) were catalytic residues, and Trp(270), Tyr(461), and Asn(462) were involved in the substrate-binding site for discriminating the substrate structures. In particular, hydrogen bonding between Asn(462) and xylose at the nonreducing end subsite +2 was important for the higher activity of substituted arabinofuranosyl residues than that for terminal arabinofuranoses.
Analysis of lignin-carbohydrate and lignin-lignin linkages after hydrolase treatment of xylan-lignin, glucomannan-lignin and glucan-lignin complexes from spruce wood.	Xylan-lignin (XL), glucomannan-lignin (GML) and glucan-lignin (GL) complexes were isolated from spruce wood, hydrolyzed with xylanase or endoglucanase/β-glucosidase, and analyzed by analytical pyrolysis and 2D-NMR. The enzymatic hydrolysis removed most of the polysaccharide moieties in the complexes, and the lignin content and relative abundance of lignin-carbohydrate linkages increased. Analytical pyrolysis confirmed the action of the enzymatic hydrolysis, with strong decreases of levoglucosane and other carbohydrate-derived products. Unexpectedly it also revealed that the hydrolase treatment alters the pattern of lignin breakdown products, resulting in higher amounts of coniferyl alcohol. From the anomeric carbohydrate signals in the 2D-NMR spectra, phenyl glycoside linkages (undetectable in the original complexes) could be identified in the hydrolyzed GML complex. Lower amounts of glucuronosyl and benzyl ether linkages were also observed after the hydrolysis. From the 2D-NMR spectra of the hydrolyzed complexes, it was concluded that the lignin in GML is less condensed than in XL due to its higher content in β-O-4' ether substructures (62 % of side chains in GML vs 53 % in XL) accompanied by more coniferyl alcohol end units (16 vs 13 %). In contrast, the XL lignin has more pinoresinols (11 vs 6 %) and dibenzodioxocins (9 vs 2 %) than the GML (and both have ~13 % phenylcoumarans and 1 % spirodienones). Direct 2D-NMR analysis of the hydrolyzed GL complex was not possible due to its low solubility. However, after sample acetylation, an even less condensed lignin than in the GML complex was found (with up to 72 % β-O-4' substructures and only 1 % pinoresinols). The study provides evidence for the existence of structurally different lignins associated to hemicelluloses (xylan and glucomannan) and cellulose in spruce wood and, at the same time, offers information on some of the chemical linkages between the above polymers.
New insights into the structural and spatial variability of cell-wall polysaccharides during wheat grain development, as revealed through MALDI mass spectrometry imaging.	Arabinoxylans (AX) and (1→3),(1→4)-β-glucans (BG) are the major components of wheat grain cell walls. Although incompletely described at the molecular level, it is known that the chemical and distributional heterogeneity of these compounds impacts the quality and use of wheat. In this work, an emerging technique based on MALDI mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) was employed to map variations in the quantity, localization, and structure of these polysaccharides in the endosperm during wheat maturation. MALDI MSI couples detailed structural information with the spatial localization observed at the micrometer scale. The enzymic hydrolysis of AX and BG was performed directly on the grain sections, resulting in the efficient formation of smaller oligosaccharides that are easily measurable through MS, with no relocation across the grain. The relative quantification of the generated oligosaccharides was achieved. The method was validated by confirming data previously obtained using other analytical techniques. Furthermore, in situ analysis of grain cell walls through MSI revealed previously undetectable intense acetylation of AX in young compared to mature grains, together with findings concerning the feruloylation of AX and different structural features of BG. These results provide new insights into the physiological roles of these polysaccharides in cell walls and the specificity of the hydrolytic enzymes involved. 
Entrapment of probiotics in water extractable arabinoxylan gels: rheological and microstructural characterization.	Due to their porous structure, aqueous environment and dietary fiber nature arabinoxylan (AX) gels could have potential applications for colon-specific therapeutic molecule delivery. In addition, prebiotic and health related effects of AX have been previously demonstrated. It has been also reported that cross-linked AX can be degraded by bacteria from the intestinal microbiota. However, AX gels have not been abundantly studied as carrier systems and there is no information available concerning their capability to entrap cells. In this regard, probiotic bacteria such as Bifidobacterium longum have been the focus of intense research activity lately. The objective of this research was to investigate the entrapment of probiotic B. longum in AX gels. AX solution at 2% (w/v) containing B. longum (1 × 10⁷ CFU/cm) formed gels induced by laccase as cross-linking agent. The entrapment of B. longum decreased gel elasticity from 31 to 23 Pa, probably by affecting the physical interactions taking place between WEAX chains. Images of AX gels containing B. longum viewed under a scanning electron microscope show the gel network with the bacterial cells entrapped inside. The microstructure of these gels resembles that of an imperfect honeycomb. The results suggest that AX gels can be potential candidates for the entrapment of probiotics.
Nutritive activity of soluble rice brain arabinoxylans in broiler diets.	1. A soluble material (703 g/kg non-starch polysaccharide, 141 g/kg starch and 166 g/kg protein) of low viscosity (termed RB-NSP), was isolated in large quantities from defatted Australian rice bran using a mild alkaline extraction and ethanol precipitation. 2. The soluble non-starch polysaccharide fraction of RB-NSP comprised arabinose (0.40 mol%), xylose (0.32 mol%) galactose (0.17 mol%), glucose (0.08 mol%) and mannose (0.03 mol%). 3. RB-NSP was included at graded concentrations (0, 20, 40 and 60 g/kg) in a sorghum/casein basal diet and the diet fed to male broilers in a classical balance trial to determine apparent metabolisable energy (AME). The AME values recorded were 13.26, 13.85, 14.26 and 14.00 MJ/kg DM with a significant correlation (r = 0.65, P < 0.001) between dietary RB-NSP inclusion rate and dietary AME. 4. Feeding RB-NSP had no effect on growth, food conversion ratio or the digestibilities of starch and protein which were both high (0.98-0.99 and 0.88-0.89, respectively). 5. It was concluded that the RB-NSP may have been a substrate for hindgut fermentation in the broiler but that it possessed no anti-nutritive activity.
Structures of small oligomers liberated from barley arabinoxylans by endoxylanase from Aspergillus awamori.	Arabinoxylans consisting of more than 90% of arabinose and xylose were extracted from water-insoluble cell wall material of dehusked barley grain, and degraded with a purified endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-xylanase from Aspergillus awamori. Twelve of the oligosaccharide fragments released were isolated by a combination of size-exclusion and anion-exchange chromatography, and their structures were determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy. The oligosaccharides identified consisted of (1-->4)-linked beta-D-xylopyranosyl residues, some of which were substituted at O-2, at O-3, or at both O-2 and O-3, with alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl groups. Two new structures, a tetrasaccharide and a pentasaccharide, both containing terminal 2-O-arabinofuranosylxylopyranose as a structural element are described.
Preparation, characterization and application of Aspergillus sp. xylanase immobilized on Eudragit S-100.	Aspergillus sp. 5 (strain 5) and Aspergillus sp. 44 (strain 44) produced xylanase (34.3 and 32.7 IU ml-1, respectively) with very low levels of cellulases when grown on 1% wheat bran medium. Xylanase was non-covalently immobilized on Eudragit S-100 for saccharification. The system retained 70 and 80% of strain 5 and strain 44 xylanase activity, respectively. On immobilization, optimum temperature of activity broadened between 50 and 60 degrees C as compared to 50 degrees C in the case of the free enzymes. No significant shift in the pH optima was observed on immobilization. However, immobilization increased enzyme stability mainly by decreasing the temperature sensitivity to the inactivation reaction. The K(m) values increased from 5.6 to 8.3 mg ml-1 for strain 5 xylanase and 7.0 to 9.0 mg ml-1 for strain 44 xylanase. Enzymatic saccharification of xylan and wheat bran was improved on xylanase immobilization. Immobilized xylanase from both the strains produced three times more sugar as compared to free xylanase. In repeated batch saccharification studies immobilized xylanase was recycled three times without loss of enzyme activity.
