Gene expression in rat skin induced by irritating chemicals.	Occupational skin disease is the second most significant cause of occupational disease, after accidents. Irritation from occupational chemicals such as solvents, hydrocarbons, and surfactants are one cause of this disease. Gene expression studies provide useful information about normal processes in the skin and responses of the skin to exogenous chemicals. We exposed rats, cutaneously, to sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS, 1% and 10% aqueous solution), m-xylene (pure liquid), and d-limonene (pure liquid) for 1 h and measured transcriptional responses at the end of the exposure and 3 h later for comparison with untreated skin samples. Total skin RNA was isolated and analyzed using the Affymetrix RatTox U34 array. Using the Affymetrix software, we found that 234 of approximately 850 genes were detected as present in at least 80% of the normal skin samples. The largest number of these genes was related to metabolism, oxidative/cellular stress, and signal transduction. Limonene caused the largest change in mRNA levels with a total of 34 increased transcripts and 4 decreased transcripts. Xylene treatment resulted in 6 increased transcripts and 14 decreased transcripts, while 10% SLS caused 5 transcripts to increase and 17 to decrease. Only two transcripts were observed to change in skin following a 1% SLS exposure. Sodium lauryl sulfate transcript changes increased with dose and were maximum at 4 h. Limonene transcript changes were more numerous at 1 h than at 4 h. The observed differences may reflect different mechanisms of irritation.
Toluene and p-xylene induced LLC-PK1 apoptosis.	Occupational exposure to organic solvents was found to be associated with development and progression of tubulo-interstitial fibrosis and chronic renal failure. However, the cellular mechanism by which this occurs remains elusive. This study was conducted to evaluate the mode of cell death in proximal tubular cells exposed to organic solvents. LLC-PK1 cell line cytotoxicity due to exposure to 1 mM of either p-xylene or toluene was compared to untreated control by cell viability, LDH release, and DNA fragmentation. Cells were exposed to solvents for 96 hrs. Toluene and p-xylene reduced cell viability and increased DNA fragmentation. LDH release was unchanged. These data indicates that long-term exposure to organic solvents is associated with proximal tubule cell apoptosis, which may be the mechanism of progressive renal fibrosis and renal failure in patients with high solvent exposure.
Potential toxicity of toluene and xylene evoked by mitochondrial uncoupling.	Toluene and xylene are chemicals present in various laboratory and other industrial products. Their toxicity to the nervous system and to the liver has been well documented. In the present work, we have studied in vitro effects of toluene and xylene on the respiration of succinate-energized isolated rat liver mitochondria, membrane potential, Ca2+ release, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and ATP levels. Also Ca2+-dependent, cyclosporine A-sensitive mitochondrial swelling, an indicator of mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), was studied. At 0.5-2.5 and 0.25-1mM concentrations respectively, toluene and xylene stimulated state 4 respiration in apparent association with mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation and Ca2+ release; these actions of both solvents are consistent with mitochondrial uncoupling. At higher concentrations (2.5 and 5mM, respectively) toluene and xylene also inhibited state 3 respiration. At 0.1-1mM concentrations, xylene elicited significant increase of ROS generation and partly Ca2+-dependent cyclosporine A-sensitive mitochondrial swelling. At 1 mM concentration, toluene or xylene caused depletions of mitochondrial ATP, amounting to 66.3% and 40.3%, respectively; depletions were only slightly dependent on Ca2+. It was concluded that mitochondrial uncoupling via ATP depletion might be responsible for the cell toxicity of toluene described earlier and in particular, of xylene. In the case of xylene, mitochondrial ROS generation and MPT also appear to be involved.
Induction of apoptosis in human leukemia cells through the production of reactive oxygen species and activation of HMOX1 and Noxa by benzene, toluene, and o-xylene.	Whereas benzene (BZ) is a well-known human carcinogen, toluene (TOL) and o-xylene (o-XY) are not; however, all three compounds are important environmental pollutants. Although BZ, TOL, and o-XY have been shown to induce apoptosis in vitro, their mechanism of toxicity remains unclear. In this study, we sought to identify the apoptotic pathway(s) activated by BZ, TOL, and o-XY in human HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells. Cell cycle analysis by propidium iodide (PI) staining and flow cytometric analyses of Annexin V/PI double-stained cells revealed similar patterns of apoptosis following BZ, TOL, and o-XY exposure. Though reactive oxygen species (ROS) production contributes significantly to BZ metabolite-induced apoptotic cell death, we hypothesized that BZ, TOL, and o-XY can themselves trigger ROS production, leading to the activation of apoptotic signaling. Dose-dependent increases in ROS production and significant tail moments were observed in HL-60 cells exposed to all three compounds. Real-time RT-PCR revealed increased HMOX1 and Noxa expression in BZ-, TOL-, and o-XY-treated HL-60 cells, confirming the results of previous microarray analyses. Similar expression profiles were found in human K562 erythromyeloblastoid leukemia cells and human U937 leukemic monocyte lymphoma cells. Pretreatment with the ROS scavenger N-acetyl cysteine decreased the effects of exposure to BZ, TOL, and o-XY. In summary, this study provides useful insights into the mechanism of BZ-, TOL-, and o-XY-induced apoptosis in leukemia cells.
Effects of chronic solvent abuse exposure on umami taste perception.	Inhalant abuse constitutes an important public health problem in Mexico that is more prevalent among children and adolescents. Commercial products that are abused are complex mixtures of solvents containing mainly toluene, in association with other solvents like benzene and xylene. Epidemiological evidence indicates that chronic solvent abuse exposure can cause loss of appetite among other unwanted effects. The mechanisms by which loss of appetite is produced are unknown. It is a matter of interest to determine if loss of appetite is related to changes in taste perception. One of the basic flavors detected by the taste system is umami taste (monosodium glutamate) and it has been proposed that glutamatergic receptors can play an important role in umami taste transduction and perception. It is unknown however, if chronic solvent abuse exposure can induce alterations in umami taste perception. The purpose of this work was to determine if chronic solvent exposure in rats causes alterations in glutamate solution consumption. Rats were exposed to solvents (6000 ppm) in a static chamber for 2 months, as follows: a toluene group, a benzene group, a xylene group and a control group. During the treatment, glutamate solution (120 mM) consumption, food intake and rat weights were measured. The results show that glutamate solution intake was increased in rats chronically exposed to solvents, with differences in consumption patterns between solvents. In addition, chronically exposed animals had a lower weight increase compared with unexposed rats. These data suggest that solvent inhalation originates feeding behavior alteration in rats.
An introduction to the practice, prevalence and chemical toxicology of volatile substance abuse.	1. Volatile substance abuse is largely a teenage practice; it is estimated that in the UK 3.5-10% of young people have at least experimented and that 0.5-1% are current users. 2. The products abused are many and varied but only about 20 chemical compounds, notably toluene, chlorinated solvents such as 1,1,1-trichloroethane, fuel gases such as butane and aerosol propellants, are commonly encountered. 3. The acute hazard varies with the compound, product and mode of abuse. Mortality in the UK is now about 100 per year, from all social classes, 90% of whom are male. 4. Chronic toxicity is difficult to assess, partly because of the diversity of products abused. However it is clear that some long-term abusers suffer permanent damage to the central nervous system, heart, liver and kidney. 5. Toxicological analysis may be relied upon for confirmation of diagnosis, providing attention is paid to the kinetics of excretion and stability in the sample. 6. Responses include codes of practice for the sale of products and educational strategies; legislation has also been enacted. There is little evidence that any of these measures have made a significant impact on the problem.
Effects of pretreatment of male NMRI mice with enzyme inducers or inhibitors on clastogenicity of toluene.	Five groups of young male NMRI mice were pretreated with IP injections of three known inducers of cytochrome P450, Aroclor 1254, phenobarbital and 3-methylcholanthrene, and two inhibitors, metyrapone and alpha-naphthoflavone, 5, 3, 2, 1, and 1 day(s) before receiving toluene, respectively. Toluene was given to animals by IP injections of two similar doses 24 h apart. Increased formation of micronuclei within polychromatic erythrocytes of femoral bone marrow 30 h after the first injection of toluene was recorded. None of the treatments with an inducer or inhibitor alone gave a significant increase in the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes. However, pretreatment of animals with each inducer or even inhibitor resulted in an enhanced clastogenic activity of toluene. Simultaneous injections of an inhibitor and toluene clearly decreased the clastogenicities observed. Enhancement of the clastogenicity of toluene was more evident among Aroclor -pretreated animals than among the other groups. Treatment of animals with a mixture of toluene and benzene did not result in an additive clastogenic activity of benzene. IP injection of a mixture of toluene and every xylene isomer resulted in an enhanced clastogenic activity of toluene, although xylene isomers are not found to be clastogenic.
Toxicity of carbamates for mammals.	Toxicity studies have been carried out with a number of monomethylcarbamates, most of which reached an advanced stage in the World Health Organization insecticide evaluation programme. Both quantitative and qualitative distinctions have been found between the carbamates studied, and certain common characteristics that distinguish them in several important aspects from organophosphorus insecticides have been demonstrated.
Effects of work environment contaminated with benzene, toluene and xylene on acid phosphatase activity in lymphocytes.	The activity of acid phosphatase (AP) in peripheral blood lymphocytes was determined by means of histochemical method in 108 workers having occupational contact with organic solvents containing benzene and its homologues. Benzene, toluene and xylene concentrations in the air at work stands were equal to 0-370, 0-580 and 0-560 mg/eu.m., respectively. A progressing reduction of numbers of lymphocytes having AP-positive intact lysosomes was stated in workers with a working time equal 31-122 months. This phenomenon was more expressed in workers exposed to greater concentrations of benzene and its homologues. The damage to the lysosomal apparatus of lymphocytes reflected by an increased permeability of lysosomal membranes can be regarded as one of the earliest symptoms of toxic effects of benzene, toluene and xylene on cells of the lymphocytic series.
Induction of morphologically abnormal sperm in rats exposed to O-Xylene.	An analysis of sperm abnormalities can be used as a rapid method to determine the mutagenic potential of chemical agents as well as the toxic potential of chemicals on the whole animal. O-Xylene was investigated for its potential mutagenicity by the sperm abnormality assay. Sprague Dawley rats 10-16 weeks old were injected intraperitoneally (ip) with 0.5 and 1.5 ml/kg body weight of o-xylene in corn oil. Five weeks after treatment, animals were sacrificed and sperm examined for morphological abnormalities. Several morphologically abnormal sperm types were observed; among these were those with amorphous heads, and banana-like heads. Animals housed at room temperatures of 20-24 degrees C showed no significant increase in abnormal sperm over the control. Rats housed at temperatures between 24 and 30 degrees C after ip injection with 0.5 ml/kg o-xylene showed a significant increase in abnormal sperm.
Serum bile acid concentration in some experimental liver lesions of rat.	The usefulness of measuring serum bile acid concentrations by RIA in a number of acute experimental liver injuries of rats was assessed by comparing the concentrations with the results of some of the routinely employed methods of examining hepatotoxic changes. Centrilobular liver cell injury produced by CCl4 revealed leakage of GPT and GDH and to a lesser extent AP; along with minimal increase in serum bile acid levels. Serum bilirubin concentration remained unchanged. Surgical bile duct ligation resulted in marked rises in AP, GPT and GDH and total bilirubin levels and levels of serum bile acids. Intravenous injection of MnSO4 induced focal necrosis of liver and bile canalivular dilation associated with elevated GDH and GPT concentrations. AP and bilirubin levels were unchanged. Bile acid levels were raised among female rats. 2,4-Xylidine induced hepatotoxicity revealed bile duct hyperplasia, liver cell enlargement, liver cell necrosis, biliary canalicular dilation and proliferation of endoplasmic reticulum. GDH and GPT levels were raised along with bile acid concentrations. This study suggested that assay of bile acid concentration is a sensitive indicator of several acute hepatic injuries.
Changes in autonomic function as determined by ECG R-R interval variability in sandal, shoe and leather workers exposed to n-hexane, xylene and toluene.	To clarify if autonomic nervous system effects might be associated with exposure to organic solvents, 30 sandal, shoe and leather workers exposed to n-hexane, xylene, and toluene, and 25 unexposed controls were examined using the coefficient of variation in electrocardiographic R-R intervals (CVRR), combined with the distribution of nerve conduction velocities (DCV). The C-CVRSA and C-CVMWSA (two component CVs of the CVRR reflecting parasympathetic and sympathetic activities, respectively) were also computed from component spectral powers using autoregressive spectral and component analyses. Concentrations of the metabolites of the solvents in urine samples taken in the morning before work were 0-3.18 (mean 1.39) mg/l for 2,5-hexanedione, 0.10-0.43 (mean 0.19) g/g creatinine (Cn) for methylhippuric acid, and 0.05-2.53 (mean 0.41) g/g Cn for hippuric acid. In the solvent workers, the CVRR and C-CVRSA were reduced significantly when compared with the unexposed controls. The faster velocities of the DCV as well as the sensory median nerve conduction velocity (SCV) were significantly slowed in the solvent-exposed workers. The SCV was significantly correlated with the CVRR and C-CVMWSA among the solvent workers. These data suggest that chronic exposure to some organic solvents may affect cardiac autonomic function (mainly, parasympathetic activity) in addition to faster myelinated fibers of the peripheral nerves. However, the absence of significant dose-effect relations among the solvent workers makes it difficult to definitively attribute the differences to specific solvent exposures.
Effect of xylene, toluene and methyl alcohol on liver collagenesis in rats.	Among the three important industrial solvents used, maximum stimulation of collagen formation in rat liver was caused by methyl alcohol followed by toluene and xylene. A combined treatment also promoted collagenesis suggesting a synergistic effect of these solvents.
Ten and ninety-day toxicity studies of 2,4-dimethylphenol in Sprague-Dawley rats.	Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats received 2,4-dimethylphenol daily by gavage for 10 or 90 consecutive days. The 10-day acute study doses were 0, 60, 120, 600 and 1200 mg/kg; the 90-day subchronic study doses were 0, 60, 180 and 540 mg/kg. Corn oil was used as the vehicle. In the 10-day study, all the high dose animals died. At 600 mg/kg there was a significant increase in relative liver weight in females and several significant alterations in hematologic and clinical chemistry values in both sexes. Histopathological examination revealed changes associated with the forestomach in all dose groups. The 90-day study had numerous compound-related deaths at the 540 mg/kg level. In addition, the final body weight in high dose males and females was significantly less while absolute lung weights and relative liver weights in females, and relative brain, kidney and testes weights in males were also altered. Significant clinical chemistry findings in high dose animals (540 mg/kg) included reduced creatinine and increased cholesterol in both sexes, with increased triglycerides and decreased AST in males only. Histopathologic evaluation revealed hyperkeratosis and epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach in males and females in the middle and high-dose groups.
Antioxidant regulation of the changes in liver excretory function in toxic hepatitis]	The effects of the anthelmintic agent chloxyl given to rabbits in different doses were compared with those of CCl4 on the excretory function of the liver. There was a similarity of the above agents in their inhibitory effects on hepatic excretory function. The hepatoprotective effect of the antioxidant sodium selenite was found to be more pronounced than that of vitamin E. The combination of the above antioxidants was most effective in normalizing the excretory function of the liver affected by CCl4 and chloxyl, revealing the potentiation of their effect.
