Cross-talk between the cytosolic mevalonate and the plastidial methylerythritol phosphate pathways in tobacco bright yellow-2 cells.	In plants, two pathways are utilized for the synthesis of isopentenyl diphosphate, the universal precursor for isoprenoid biosynthesis. The key enzyme of the cytoplasmic mevalonic acid (MVA) pathway is 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGR). Treatment of Tobacco Bright Yellow-2 (TBY-2) cells by the HMGR-specific inhibitor mevinolin led to growth reduction and induction of apparent HMGR activity, in parallel to an increase in protein representing two HMGR isozymes. Maximum induction was observed at 24 h. 1-Deoxy-d-xylulose (DX), the dephosphorylated first precursor of the plastidial 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway, complemented growth inhibition by mevinolin in the low millimolar concentration range. Furthermore, DX partially re-established feedback repression of mevinolin-induced HMGR activity. Incorporation studies with [1,1,1,4-2H4]DX showed that sterols, normally derived from MVA, in the presence of mevinolin are synthesized via the MEP pathway. Fosmidomycin, an inhibitor of 1-deoxy-d-xylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase, the second enzyme of the MEP pathway, was utilized to study the reverse complementation. Growth inhibition by fosmidomycin of TBY-2 cells could be partially overcome by MVA. Chemical complementation was further substantiated by incorporation of [2-13C]MVA into plastoquinone, representative of plastidial isoprenoids. Best rates of incorporation of exogenous stably labeled precursors were observed in the presence of both inhibitors, thereby avoiding internal isotope dilution.
Hexameric assembly of the bifunctional methylerythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase and protein-protein associations in the deoxy-xylulose-dependent pathway of isoprenoid precursor biosynthesis.	The bifunctional methylerythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase methylerythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase (IspDF) is unusual in that it catalyzes nonconsecutive reactions in the 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate (DOXP) pathway of isoprenoid precursor biosynthesis. The crystal structure of IspDF from the bacterial pathogen Campylobacter jejuni reveals an elongated hexamer with D3 symmetry compatible with the dimeric 2C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase and trimeric 2C-methyl-D-erythritol-2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase monofunctional enzymes. Complex formation of IspDF with 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol kinase (IspE), the intervening enzyme activity in the pathway, has been observed in solution for the enzymes from C. jejuni and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The monofunctional enzymes (2C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase, IspE, and 2C-methyl-D-erythritol-2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase) involved in the DOXP biosynthetic pathway of Escherichia coli also show physical associations. We propose that complex formation of the three enzymes at the core of the DOXP pathway can produce an assembly localizing 18 catalytic centers for the early stages of isoprenoid biosynthesis.
