A delicate balance: homeostatic control of copper uptake and distribution.	The cellular uptake and intracellular distribution of the essential but highly toxic nutrient, copper, is a precisely orchestrated process. Copper homeostasis is coordinated by several proteins to ensure that it is delivered to specific subcellular compartments and copper-requiring proteins without releasing free copper ions that will cause damage to cellular components. Genetic studies in prokaryotic organisms and yeast have identified membrane-associated proteins that mediate the uptake or export of copper from cells. Within cells, small cytosolic proteins, called copper chaperones, have been identified that bind copper ions and deliver them to specific compartments and copper-requiring proteins. The identification of mammalian homologues of these proteins reveal a remarkable structural and functional conservation of copper metabolism between bacteria, yeast and humans. Furthermore, studies on the function and localization of the products of the Menkes and Wilson's disease genes, which are defective in patients afflicted with these diseases, have provided valuable insight into the mechanisms of copper balance and their role in maintaining appropriate copper distribution in mammals.
Aroma compound production in cheese curd by coculturing with selected yeast and bacteria.	The microorganisms involved in cheese ripening produce various volatile compounds and induce typical flavors that contribute to cheese variety. To investigate aroma compound generation of cheese microflora, we used a dynamic headspace-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. To obtain good sensitivity and repeatability of quantification, dynamic headspace conditions and sample preparation were first optimized and led to an extraction set up in which samples were heated at 60 degrees C and diluted with water without pH adjustment. Then three different yeasts and three Geotrichum candidum commonly used in mold surface ripened cheeses were studied in pure culture in a cheese model medium. Thirty-nine cocultures of these three yeasts, the three G. candidum, and five bacteria were studied in the same medium to assess the interaction between microorganisms on aroma compound production. Twenty-four volatile compounds belonging to different chemical classes (alcohols, aldehydes, esters, sulfides, terpenes) were identified and quantified. Yeasts and especially Kluyveromyces lactis produced large amounts of alcohols, aldehydes, esters, and terpenes when cultured alone or in association. Geotrichum candidum and especially G. candidum strain G3 generated the largest amount of sulfides when cultured alone or in association. Finally, bacteria also produced aroma compounds but, except for Brevibacterium linens strain B5, which produced dimethyl trisulfide and ketones, no specific trend in the production of particular aroma compounds could be evidenced.
Cloning, heterologous expression, and in situ characterization of the first high affinity nucleobase transporter from a protozoan.	While multiple nucleoside transporters, some of which can also transport nucleobases, have been cloned in recent years from many different organisms, no sequence information is available for the high affinity, nucleobase-selective transporters of metazoa, parazoa, or protozoa. We have identified a gene, TbNBT1, from Trypanosoma brucei brucei that encodes a 435-residue protein of the equilibrative nucleoside transporter superfamily. The gene was expressed in both the procyclic and bloodstream forms of the organism. Expression of TbNBT1 in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain lacking an endogenous purine transporter allowed growth on adenine as sole purine source and introduced a high affinity transport activity for adenine and hypoxanthine, with Km values of 2.1 +/- 0.6 and 0.66 +/- 0.22 microm, respectively, as well as high affinity for xanthine, guanine, guanosine, and allopurinol and moderate affinity for inosine. A transporter with an indistinguishable kinetic profile was identified in T. b. brucei procyclics and designated H4. RNA interference of TbNBT1 in procyclics reduced cognate mRNA levels by approximately 80% and H4 transport activity by approximately 90%. Expression of TbNBT1 in Xenopus oocytes further confirmed that this gene encodes the first high affinity nucleobase transporter from protozoa or animals to be identified at the molecular level.
GWT1 gene is required for inositol acylation of glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchors in yeast.	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) is a conserved post-translational modification to anchor cell surface proteins to plasma membrane in all eukaryotes. In yeast, GPI mediates cross-linking of cell wall mannoproteins to beta1,6-glucan. We reported previously that the GWT1 gene product is a target of the novel anti-fungal compound, 1-[4-butylbenzyl]isoquinoline, that inhibits cell wall localization of GPI-anchored mannoproteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Tsukahara, K., Hata, K., Sagane, K., Watanabe, N., Kuromitsu, J., Kai, J., Tsuchiya, M., Ohba, F., Jigami, Y., Yoshimatsu, K., and Nagasu, T. (2003) Mol. Microbiol. 48, 1029-1042). In the present study, to analyze the function of the Gwt1 protein, we isolated temperature-sensitive gwt1 mutants. The gwt1 cells were normal in transport of invertase and carboxypeptidase Y but were delayed in transport of GPI-anchored protein, Gas1p, and were defective in its maturation from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. The incorporation of inositol into GPI-anchored proteins was reduced in gwt1 mutant, indicating involvement of GWT1 in GPI biosynthesis. We analyzed the early steps of GPI biosynthesis in vitro by using membranes prepared from gwt1 and Deltagwt1 cells. The synthetic activity of GlcN-(acyl)PI from GlcN-PI was defective in these cells, whereas Deltagwt1 cells harboring GWT1 gene restored the activity, indicating that GWT1 is required for acylation of inositol during the GPI synthetic pathway. We further cloned GWT1 homologues in other yeasts, Cryptococcus neoformans and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and confirmed that the specificity of acyl-CoA in inositol acylation, as reported in studies of endogenous membranes (Franzot, S. P., and Doering, T. L. (1999) Biochem. J. 340, 25-32), is due to the properties of Gwt1p itself and not to other membrane components.
Mdm30 is an F-box protein required for maintenance of fusion-competent mitochondria in yeast.	Mitochondrial fusion and fission play important roles for mitochondrial morphology and function. We identified Mdm30 as a novel component required for maintenance of fusion-competent mitochondria in yeast. The Mdm30 sequence contains an F-box motif that is commonly found in subunits of Skp1-Cdc53-F-box protein ubiquitin ligases. A fraction of Mdm30 is associated with mitochondria. Cells lacking Mdm30 contain highly aggregated or fragmented mitochondria instead of the branched tubular network seen in wild-type cells. Deltamdm30 cells lose mitochondrial DNA at elevated temperature and fail to fuse mitochondria in zygotes at all temperatures. These defects are rescued by deletion of DNM1, a gene encoding a component of the mitochondrial division machinery. The protein level of Fzo1, a key component of the mitochondrial fusion machinery, is regulated by Mdm30. Elevated Fzo1 levels in cells lacking Mdm30 or in cells overexpressing Fzo1 from a heterologous promoter induce mitochondrial aggregation in a similar manner. Our results suggest that Mdm30 controls mitochondrial shape by regulating the steady-state level of Fzo1 and point to a connection of the ubiquitin/26S proteasome system and mitochondria.
Targeted cytosine methylation for in vivo detection of protein-DNA interactions.	We report a technique, named targeted gene methylation (TAGM), for identifying in vivo protein-binding sites in chromatin. M.CviPI, a cytosine-5 DNA methyltransferase recognizing GC sites, is fused to a DNA-binding factor enabling simultaneous detection of targeted methylation, factor footprints, and chromatin structural changes by bisulfite genomic sequencing. Using TAGM with the yeast transactivator Pho4, methylation enrichments of up to 34- fold occur proximal to native Pho4-binding sites. Additionally, significant selective targeting of methylation is observed several hundred nucleotides away, suggesting the detection of long-range interactions due to higher-order chromatin structure. In contrast, at an extragenic locus lacking Pho4-binding sites, methylation levels are at the detection limit at early times after Pho4 transactivation. Notably, substantial amounts of methylation are targeted by Pho4-M.CviPI under repressive conditions when most of the transactivator is excluded from the nucleus. Thus, TAGM enables rapid detection of DNA-protein interactions even at low occupancies and has potential for identifying factor targets at the genome-wide level. Extension of TAGM from yeast to vertebrates, which use methylation to initiate and propagate repressed chromatin, could also provide a valuable strategy for heritable inactivation of gene expression.
Hurpin is a selective inhibitor of lysosomal cathepsin L and protects keratinocytes from ultraviolet-induced apoptosis.	Hurpin (headpin/PI13/serpinB13) is an intracellular, differentially spliced member of the serpin superfamily that has been linked to differentiation and apoptosis of human keratinocytes. It is transiently downregulated by UV light and overexpressed in psoriatic skin lesions. Although it has all of the features of an inhibitory serpin, a productive interaction between hurpin and a proteinase has not yet been reported. Here we demonstrate that hurpin is a potent and selective inhibitor of the archetypal lysosomal cysteine proteinase cathepsin L (catL). Recombinant hurpin inhibits human catL with a stoichiometry of inhibition (SI) of 1.7 and a rate constant k(assoc) of (4.6 +/- 0.14) x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1). It inefficiently inhibits catV and does not inhibit papain, catB, or catK. To investigate the inhibitory mechanism, we determined the P1-P1' bond in the reactive center loop cleaved by catL ((356)Thr-(357)Ser) and expressed variants in which the proximal hinge, P1 residue, or differentially spliced CD loop was mutated. The results of assays using these proteins suggest that inhibition of catL by hurpin occurs via the conventional serpin inhibitory mechanism and that the CD loop plays no role in the process. Finally, it was found that the majority of hurpin is cytosolic and that its overexpression in human keratinocytes confers resistance to UV-induced apoptosis. Given that lysosomal disruption, release of catL, and catL-mediated caspase activation are known to occur in response to cellular stress, we propose that a physiological role of hurpin is to protect epithelial cells from ectopic catL.
Complex chimeras to map ligand binding sites of GPCRs.	Family 1a GPCRs are thought to bind small molecule ligands in a pocket comprising sequences from non-contiguous transmembrane helices. In this study, receptor-ligand binding determinants were defined by building a series of complex chimeras where multiple sequences were exchanged between related G-protein coupled receptors. Regions of P2Y(1), P2Y(2) and BLT(1) predicted to interact with nucleotide and leukotriene ligands were identified and receptors were engineered within their transmembrane helices to transpose the ligand binding site of one receptor on to another receptor. Ligand-induced activation of chimeras was compared with wild-type receptor activation in a yeast reporter gene assay. Binding of ligand to a P2Y(2)/BLT(1) chimera confirmed that the ligand binding determinants of BLT(1) are located in the upper regions of the helices and extracellular loops of this receptor and that they had been successfully transferred to a receptor that normally binds unrelated ligands.
A yeast biosensor for glucose determination.	A yeast potentiometric biosensor for glucose determination is described. After induction of glycolytic enzyme synthesis a cell suspension of the yeast Hansenula anomala is retained in calcium alginate gel on the surface of a glass electrode. This biosensor gives a Nernstian response in glucose concentration of 5 x 10(-4)-5 x 10(-3) mol/l with a response time of 5 min and a life-time of at least 2 months. Mannose and fructose are the only significantly interfering substances. The biosensor was used for measurement of glucose concentration in urine with results comparable to those obtained by a photometric enzymatic method.
Organization and function of the small Tim complexes acting along the import pathway of metabolite carriers into mammalian mitochondria.	Tim9, Tim10a, and Tim10b are members of the family of small Tim proteins located in the intermembrane space of mammalian mitochondria. In yeast, members of this family act along the TIM22 import pathway during import of metabolite carriers and other integral inner membrane proteins. Here, we show that the human small proteins form two distinct hetero-oligomeric complexes. A 70-kDa complex that contains Tim9 and Tim10a and a Tim9-10a-10b that is part of a higher molecular weight assembly of 450 kDa. This distribution among two complexes suggests Tim10b to be the functional homologue of yeast Tim12. Both human complexes are tightly associated with the inner membrane and, compared with yeast, soluble 70-kDa complexes appear to be completely absent in the intermembrane space. Thus, the function of soluble 70-kDa complexes as trans-site receptors for incoming carrier proteins is not conserved from lower to higher eukaryotes. During import, the small Tim complexes directly interact with human adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) in transit in a metal-dependent manner. For insertion of carrier preproteins into the inner membrane, the human small Tim proteins directly interact with human Tim22, the putative insertion pore of the TIM22 translocase. However, in contrast to yeast, only a small fraction of Tim9-Tim10a-Tim10b complex is in a stable association with Tim22. We conclude that different mechanisms and specific requirements for import and insertion of mammalian carrier preproteins have evolved in higher eukaryotes.
The yeast production system in which Escherichia coli phytase is expressed may affect growth performance, bone ash, and nutrient use in broiler chicks.	The efficacy of three Escherichia coli-derived phytase preparations on the performance and nutrient utilization of broiler chicks was evaluated. Two hundred sixteen 7-d-old male broiler chicks were grouped by weight into 6 blocks of 6 cages with 6 birds per cage. Six corn-soybean meal-based diets were randomly assigned to cages within each block. The 6 diets were adequate P, very low P, and low P and contained (g of P/kg of diet) 7.7, 4.0, and 5.1, respectively; and low-P diet plus phytase preparation A, B, or C at 1,000 units/kg of feed. All 3 phytase preparations were produced in different yeast production systems with slightly different glycosylation patterns. Preparation A was produced in Pichia pastoris, B in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and C in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The chicks were fed the experimental diets from 8 to 22 d of age. Excreta samples were collected between 17 and 21 d of age. At the end of the study, blood was collected, chicks were killed, and tibiae were removed from 3 birds per cage. Weight gain, feed intake, and feed efficiency among the 3 phytase preparations did not differ, although only phytase A diet outperformed (P < 0.05) the low-P diet in terms of weight gain and feed efficiency. All 3 phytase diets outperformed (P < 0.05) the low-P diet in bone mineral content, density, strength, percentage ash, P retention, and serum P levels. Phytase B diet outperformed the adequate-P diet in bone strength. All 3 preparations increased (P < 0.05) Ca retention with phytase B or C showing a better retention of Ca than phytase A. All 3 phytase preparations showed similar P use as indicated by BW gain and tibia bone characteristics.
A docking approach to the study of copper trafficking proteins; interaction between metallochaperones and soluble domains of copper ATPases.	A structural model of the transient complex between the yeast copper chaperone Atx1 and the first soluble domain of the copper transporting ATPase Ccc2 was obtained with HADDOCK, combining NMR chemical shift mapping information with in silico docking. These two proteins are involved in copper trafficking in yeast cells. Calculations were performed starting with the copper ion either bound to Atx1 or to Ccc2 and using the experimental structures of the copper-loaded and apo forms of each protein. The copper binding motifs of the two proteins are found in close proximity. Copper tends to move from Atx1 to Ccc2, consistent with the physiological direction of transfer, with concomitant structural rearrangements, in agreement with experimental observations. The interaction is mainly of an electrostatic nature with hydrogen bonds stabilizing the complex. The structural data are relevant for a number of proteins homologous to Atx1 and Ccc2 and conserved from bacteria to humans.
Dilute-acid hydrolysis for fermentation of the Bolivian straw material Paja Brava.	Hydrolysis of the straw material Paja Brava, a sturdy grass characteristic for the high plains of Bolivia, was studied in order to find suitable conditions for hydrolysis of the hemicellulose and cellulose parts. Dried Paja Brava material was pre-steamed, impregnated with dilute sulfuric acid (0.5% or 1.0% by wt), and subsequently hydrolyzed in a reactor at temperatures between 170 and 230 degrees C for a reaction time between 3 and 10 min. The highest yield of xylose (indicating efficient hydrolysis of hemicellulose) were found at a temperature of 190 degrees C, and a reaction time of 5-10 min, whereas considerably higher temperatures (230 degrees C) were needed for hydrolysis of cellulose. Fermentability of hemicellulose hydrolyzates was tested using the xylose-fermenting yeast species Pichia stipitis, Candida shehatae and Pachysolen tannophilus. The fermentability of hydrolyzates decreased strongly for hydrolyzates produced at temperatures higher than 200 degrees C.
Effects of 3H-1,2-dithiole-3-thione, 1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate, and selenium-enriched yeast individually and in combination on benzo[a]pyrene-induced mutagenesis in oral tissue and esophagus in lacZ mice.	We have studied the effects of three chemopreventive agents alone or in binary combinations on benzo[a]pyrene (BaP)-induced mutagenesis in the oral cavity and esophagus of lacZ mice using galE(-) selection. The mice were fed diets supplemented with 1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate (p-XSC) at 2.5 and 10 ppm Se, selenium-enriched yeast (SeY) at 2.5 and 10 ppm Se, and 3H-1,2-dithiole-3-thione (D3T) at 65 and 250 ppm, for 6 weeks. Two weeks after the start of the dietary regimen, mice were gavaged with five doses of 125 mg/kg BaP over 2 weeks, and the experiment was terminated 2 weeks later. Mutagenesis was measured in tongue, other pooled oral tissues (OTs), and esophagus. In mice treated with BaP alone, mutagenesis in the above tissues was in the range of 21-32 mutants/10(5)pfu (ca. 6-10 background levels for the corresponding tissues). p-XSC modestly inhibited mutagenesis (10-33% inhibition) in all tissues, but statistical significance was only observed at the low dose in esophagus, and pooled OT. SeY was not inhibitory alone. Greater inhibitory effects were observed with D3T, and inhibition was statistically significant at the high dose in tongue and esophagus (ca. 33%). Two combinations of low doses of the inhibitors were tested, and the D3T + SeY mix was most effective, leading to statistically significant inhibition in all three tissues (ca. 30-40% inhibition). The mixture D3T + p-XSC was of similar effectiveness as the low dose of D3T alone. This study combined with those previously done in our laboratory demonstrates effectiveness of D3T and to a lesser extent, p-XSC in the inhibition of mutagenesis, and provides support for the use of certain combinations of inhibitors as a means to increase effectiveness and reduce the dose of chemopreventive agents.
Optimization of submerged culture requirements for the production of mycelial growth and exopolysaccharide by Cordyceps jiangxiensis JXPJ 0109.	The objective of the present study was to investigate the optimal culture requirements for mycelial growth and exopolysaccharide production by Cordyceps jiangxiensis JXPJ 0109 in submerged culture.
Modeling the effects of assimilable nitrogen and temperature on fermentation kinetics in enological conditions.	We propose a dynamic model of alcoholic fermentation in wine-making conditions. In this model, the speed at which CO(2) is released is related to the effects of the main factors involved in fermentation in wine-making conditions: temperature (which can vary within a predefined range) and nitrogen additions (which must not exceed the maximal authorized level). The resulting model consists of ordinary differential equations including numerous parameters that need to be identified and important interactions between explicative variables. These parameters were identified by uncoupling the effects of variables during specific experiments. The results were validated on another series of experiments in different conditions.
Assessing factors for reliable quantitative proteomics based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.	We statistically analysed various factors to get accurate estimates of protein quantities from two-dimensional gels. Yeast proteins were labelled with (35)S or stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue G-250, and spots were automatically quantified with software packages Kepler, ImageQuaNT, Melanie 3.0 and Progenesis. The different software packages proved to have very similar performances. With (35)S-labelled actin spot as a reference, we studied the staining efficiency of colloidal Coomassie blue as a function of amino acid composition of the protein, and derived an equation to estimate the number of molecules per cell from blue-stained proteins. Absolute quantification of most glycolytic enzymes was carried out in two yeast strains.
Competition effects for copper between soil, soil solution, and yeast in a bioassay for Folsomia candida Willem.	We investigated the accumulation of copper (Cu) by the springtail Folsomia candida Willem, if exposed to Cu-contaminated sandy soil with yeast as a food source. Commonly, the dissolved and the easily desorbed Cu fractions are assumed to be available for uptake, and as both fractions depend on pH, a pH dependency of copper uptake and accumulation is expected. In recent studies with springtails this dependency was not observed. To explain this, we show that both the adsorption of copper by yeast and by soil is indeed pH dependent; however, these dependencies differ. Addition of yeast as a food source to copper-contaminated soil leads to competition for copper by yeast and soil that suppresses the pH dependency of copper adsorption by yeast. This may cause a pH dependency not to be observed in copper accumulation by springtails if they predominantly feed on yeast in bioassays. We conclude that the addition of artificial food sources in bioassays may affect the cause-effect relationships that are investigated. A combination of (soil) chemical experimentation and modeling and ecotoxicological studies may help in identifying such bias and, therefore, with interpreting bioassays.
Interferon induces the interaction of prothymosin-alpha with STAT3 and results in the nuclear translocation of the complex.	Interferons (IFNs) play critical roles in host defense by modulating the expression of various genes via tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT transcription factors. Many cytokines including IFNs induce tyrosine phosphorylation of the STAT3 transcription factor, which regulates acute phase gene expression. Using the yeast two-hybrid interaction trap, in which a tyrosine kinase is introduced into the yeast to allow tyrosine phosphorylation of bait proteins, prothymosin-alpha (ProTalpha) was identified to interact with the amino terminal half of tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT3. ProTalpha is a small, acidic, extremely abundant, and essential protein that may play a role in chromatin remodeling, and has been implicated in regulating the growth and survival of mammalian cells. Besides the interaction of tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT3 with ProTalpha in yeast cells, IFN induced the interaction of ProTalpha with STAT3 in mammalian cells, and this interaction was dependent on the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3. Moreover, IFNalpha induces the translocation of STAT3 and ProTalpha from the cytoplasm to the nucleus where these proteins colocalize. Since ProTalpha has an extremely strong nuclear localization and STAT proteins apparently lack any nuclear localization signals, the association of STAT3 with ProTalpha may provide a mechanism to result in STAT localization in the nucleus.
Evidence that the plastid translocon Tic40 components possess modulating capabilities.	The transport of proteins into the plastid is a process that faces changing cellular needs such as the situation found in different plant organs or developing tissues. The plastid translocon must therefore be responsive to the changing cell environment to deliver efficiently different arrays of structurally diverse proteins. Although the Tic40-related envelope proteins appear to be translocon components designed to address the varying needs of protein translocation, details of their involvement remain elusive. This study was thus designed to combine plant-based experiments and yeast mitochondrion-based approaches for unveiling clues related to how the Tic40 components may behave during the protein translocation process. The main findings related to how Tic40 proteins may work are: 1) natural fluctuations are apparent in developing tissues, in different organs of the same plant, and in different species; 2) transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings can tolerate functionally a wide range of variations in Tic40 levels, from partial suppression to excessive production; 3) the Tic40 proteins themselves exhibit configurational changes in their association with yeast mitochondria in response to different carbon sources; 4) the presence of Tic40 proteins in yeast mitochondria influences regulatory aspects of the mitochondrial translocon; and 5) the Tic40 proteins associate with mitochondrial translocon components involved in regulatory-like events. The combined data provide evidence that Tic40 proteins possess modulating capabilities.
Yeast longevity and aging--the mitochondrial connection.	Studies of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae reveal four processes determining life span: metabolism, stress resistance, chromatin-dependent gene regulation, and genome stability. The retrograde response, which signals mitochondrial dysfunction resulting in changes in nuclear gene expression, extends yeast life span and is induced during normal aging. This response involves extensive metabolic adaptations. The retrograde response links metabolism and genome stability during yeast aging. A reduction in the availability of nutrients also extends yeast life span. This metabolic mechanism operates by pathways distinct from the retrograde response, although it shares with the latter some longevity effectors. Life extension by calorie restriction entails re-modeling of mitochondrial function. The retrograde response appears to compensate for age changes, while calorie restriction may be a preventive mechanism. The maintenance of age asymmetry between the mother and daughter yeast cells also depends on mitochondrial function. Loss of this age asymmetry occurs during normal yeast aging and may be a paradigm for stem cell aging. The importance of mitochondrial integrity in yeast longevity is emphasized by the role of prohibition function in attenuating oxidative damage. Our studies point to the central role of mitochondria in yeast aging. They highlight the importance of the maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential, which drives the transport of biosynthetic precursors derived from the Krebs cycle. Common threads weave their way through the studies of aging in yeast and in other model organisms. This suggests conserved features of aging across phyla.
Closed-loop, multiobjective optimization of analytical instrumentation: gas chromatography/time-of-flight mass spectrometry of the metabolomes of human serum and of yeast fermentations.	The number of instrumental parameters controlling modern analytical apparatus can be substantial, and varying them systematically to optimize a particular chromatographic separation, for example, is out of the question because of the astronomical number of combinations that are possible (i.e., the "search space" is very large). However, heuristic methods, such as those based on evolutionary computing, can be used to explore such search spaces efficiently. We here describe the implementation of an entirely automated (closed-loop) strategy for doing this and apply it to the optimization of gas chromatographic separations of the metabolomes of human serum and of yeast fermentation broths. Without human intervention, the Robot Chromatographer system (i) initializes the settings on the instrument, (ii) controls the analytical run, (iii) extracts the variables defining the analytical performance (specifically the number of peaks, signal/noise ratio, and run time), (iv) chooses (via the PESA-II multiobjective genetic algorithm), and (v) programs the next series of instrumental settings, the whole continuing in an iterative cycle until suitable sets of optimal conditions have been established. Genetic programming was used to remove noise peaks and to establish the basis for the improvements observed. The system showed that the number of peaks observable depended enormously on the conditions used and served to increase them by as much as 3-fold (e.g., to over 950 in human serum) while in many cases maintaining or reducing the run time and preserving excellent signal/noise ratios. The evolutionary closed-loop machine learning strategy we describe is generic to any type of analytical optimization.
The orientations of cytochrome c in the highly dynamic complex with cytochrome b5 visualized by NMR and docking using HADDOCK.	The interaction of bovine microsomal ferricytochrome b5 with yeast iso-1-ferri and ferrocytochrome c has been investigated using heteronuclear NMR techniques. Chemical-shift perturbations for 1H and 15N nuclei of both cytochromes, arising from the interactions with the unlabeled partner proteins, were used for mapping the interacting surfaces on both proteins. The similarity of the binding shifts observed for oxidized and reduced cytochrome c indicates that the complex formation is not influenced by the oxidation state of the cytochrome c. Protein-protein docking simulations have been performed for the binary cytochrome b5-cytochrome c and ternary (cytochrome b5)-(cytochrome c)2 complexes using a novel HADDOCK approach. The docking procedure, which makes use of the experimental data to drive the docking, identified a range of orientations assumed by the proteins in the complex. It is demonstrated that cytochrome c uses a confined surface patch for interaction with a much more extensive surface area of cytochrome b5. Taken together, the experimental data suggest the presence of a dynamic ensemble of conformations assumed by the proteins in the complex.
Detection and evaluation of endocrine-disruption activity in water samples from Portuguese rivers.	Water samples (n = 183) from Portuguese rivers were tested for the presence of endocrine disruptors using the recombinant yeast assay (RYA) combined with chemical identification of compounds having endocrine-disruption properties by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Ten selected locations were sampled monthly for a period of 20 months, from April 2001 to December 2002. More than 90% of samples showed either no detectable or low levels of estrogenicity (<0.1 ng/L of estradiol equivalents). The remaining samples (17 in total, 9.3%) showed estrogenicity values ranging from 0.1 to 1.7 ng/L of estradiol equivalents; only two samples showed values greater than 1 ng/L of estradiol equivalents. Most highly estrogenic samples (13 of 17 samples) originated in five sampling sites clustered in two zones near Porto and Lisbon. Chemical analysis detected alkylphenolic compounds (octyl- and nonylphenol plus nonylphenol ethoxylates) in all samples, albeit at concentrations less than 1 microg/L for each compound in 80% of samples. Total analyte concentration exceeded 10 microg/L in only 10 samples, with all but one of those originating from only two sampling sites. In these two locations, a good correlation was observed between the concentrations of octylphenol, nonylphenol, and to a lesser extent, bisphenol A in the samples and their estrogenicity values as calculated by RYA. We conclude that estrogenic activity can be explained by alkylphenol contamination in only these sites; for the remainder, we propose that pesticides and urban waste may be the main factors responsible for estrogenic contamination.
High urine ethanol and negative blood and vitreous ethanol in a diabetic woman: a case report, retrospective case survey, and review of the literature.	Several studies have shown that ethanol can be produced in urine infected with yeast or bacteria in vitro. We present the unusual case of a diabetic woman in whom ethanol was produced in her urine in vivo. The decedent was a 19-year-old woman who was noncompliant with her diabetes treatment. She presented to a local hospital in severe diabetic ketoacidosis and died shortly thereafter. Upon arrival at the hospital, a blood glucose of 553 mg/dL was detected. A urinalysis was positive for ketones (> 80 mg/dL), glucose (> 1000 mg/dL), and large budding yeast forms. A drug screen performed on the urine was positive for ethanol. At the coroner/medical examiner office, an autopsy was negative for significant anatomic findings. Toxicology analysis revealed a urine ethanol level 0.32 g/dL, although no ethanol was detected in blood or vitreous samples. A urine gram stain and culture identified Candida glabrata. A retrospective case review of all deaths related to diabetes examined at the coroner/medical examiner office from 1986 to 2003 did not reveal other cases with similar findings. This case of a noncompliant, juvenile-diabetic woman illustrates a rare finding of apparent in vivo glucose fermentation by C. glabrata to form ethanol in the urine. This case also highlights a potential difficulty in toxicologic analysis and interpretation using urine only.
Concerted auto-regulation in yeast endosomal t-SNAREs.	In yeast, the assembly of the target (t)-SNAREs [Tlg2p/Tlg1p,Vti1p] and [Pep12p/Tlg1p,Vti1p] with the vesicular (v)-SNARE Snc2p promotes endocytic fusion. Here, selected mutations and truncations of SNARE proteins were tested in an in vitro fusion assay to identify potential regulatory regions in these proteins, and two distinct regions were found. The first is represented by the combined effect of the three t-SNARE N-terminal regions and the second is located within the Tlg1p SNARE motif. These internal controls provide a potential mechanism to enable SNARE-dependent fusion to be regulated.
Studying phospholipid metabolism using yeast systematic and chemical genetics.	Most phospholipid metabolic pathways in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are analogous to their mammalian counterparts. The biological tractability of yeast provides for an opportunity to rapidly determine functions of specific lipids or lipid metabolic pathways using both classical and chemical-genetic techniques. The recent generation of the yeast genome deletion collection revealed that approximately 75% of yeast genes are not essential for life. Coupling analysis of the yeast deletion collection with automation using high-throughput robotics enables yeast genetic screens to be more thorough and bypasses the requirement for library screens to identify genes of interest. Two high-throughput yeast genetic methods are described, systematic synthetic lethality and chemical genetics. Systematic synthetic lethality is based on the principle that inactivation of two genes separately has minimal effects on cell growth whereas inactivation of both genes simultaneously results in growth defects due to their shared requirement in a particular cellular process. Chemical genetics is the analysis of bioactive compounds to determine processes that regulate susceptibility to the compound under study, and provides powerful data regarding precise targets and mechanism of action that regulate action of the compound.
Functional divergence of a unique C-terminal domain of leucyl-tRNA synthetase to accommodate its splicing and aminoacylation roles.	Leucyl-tRNA synthetase (LeuRS) performs dual essential roles in group I intron RNA splicing as well as protein synthesis within the yeast mitochondria. Deletions of the C terminus differentially impact the two functions of the enzyme in splicing and aminoacylation in vivo. Herein, we determined that a fiveamino acid C-terminal deletion of LeuRS, which does not complement a null strain, can form a ternary complex with the bI4 intron and its maturase splicing partner. However, the complex fails to stimulate splicing activity. The x-ray co-crystal structure of LeuRS showed that a C-terminal extension of about 60 amino acids forms a discrete domain, which is unique among the LeuRSs and interacts with the corner of the L-shaped tRNALeu. Interestingly, deletion of the entire yeast mitochondrial LeuRS C-terminal domain enhanced its aminoacylation and amino acid editing activities. In striking contrast, deletion of the corresponding C-terminal domain of Escherichia coli LeuRS abolished aminoacylation of tRNALeu and also amino acid editing of mischarged tRNA molecules. These results suggest that the role of the leucine-specific C-terminal domain in tRNA recognition for aminoacylation and amino acid editing has adapted differentially and with surprisingly opposite effects. We propose that the secondary role of yeast mitochondrial LeuRS in RNA splicing has impacted the functional evolution of this critical C-terminal domain.
Protein enrichment of potato processing waste through yeast fermentation.	Potato starch obtained from waste waters of chips manufacturing was used as a fermentation substrate for yeast protein enrichment. Among 18 yeast strains, 6 strains were screened according to their biomass yield and protein content after fermentation for 16 h at 30 degrees C in an aerated glucose-based liquid media (4.5 Ls). Using concentrated media (25% solids) made from potato starch pre-hydrolyzed with malt flour and batch-fermented for 20 h at 26 degrees C under aerobic conditions, Candida utilis ATCC 9256 was the most efficient protein-forming strain. Scaled-up at the 100 Ls level, the aerobic batch process was improved under fed-batch conditions with molasses supplementation. After drying, fermented starch contained 11-12% protein, including 7-8% yeast protein.
Measuring translocation of fluorescent lipid derivatives across yeast Golgi membranes.	Phospholipid asymmetry is a fundamental feature of the plasma membrane of most eukaryotic cells and its regulation is linked to diverse physiological processes such as apoptosis and blood clotting [P. Williamson, R.A. Schlegel, Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1585 (2002) 53-63; R.F. Zwaal, A.J. Schroit, Blood 89 (1997) 1121-1132]. In addition, the phospholipid translocases (flippases) that are thought to establish asymmetry are also implicated in vesicle-mediated protein transport throughout the secretory and endocytic pathways [T.R. Graham, Trends Cell Biol. 14 (2004) 670-677]. However, the biochemical properties of phospholipid translocases in membranes of the Golgi complex and endosomes have received much less attention than translocases in the plasma membrane. We describe here a method for purifying yeast Golgi membranes and assaying an ATP-dependent phospholipid translocase activity in these membranes using fluorescent lipid analogues. This assay detects ATP-dependent translocation of labeled phosphatidylserine across late Golgi membranes, which requires the activity of a P-type ATPase called Drs2p [P. Natarajan, J. Wang, Z. Hua, T.R. Graham, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101 (2004) 10614-10619].
Fate of oestrogenic compounds and identification of oestrogenicity in a wastewater treatment process.	Understanding of the fate of oestrogen and oestrogenic compounds is important in improving the removal efficiency for oestrogens in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). In this study an attempt was made to clarify the fate of oestrogen, oestrogen sulphates, and oestrogenic compounds (synthetic oestrogen, nonylphenol and its relatives) by an instrumental analysis, and the fate of oestrogenicity by an in vitro assay. The investigation was conducted in an activated sludge WWTP in winter and summer, focusing on identification of the primary substances that induce oestrogenicity. Wastewater samples were analysed by employing the silica-gel fractionation technique in conjunction with two-step column chromatography. The results revealed that, in winter, the WWTP efficiencies for the removal of nitrogen and oestrogens decreased and the oestrone level increased with the progress of the treatment. Oestrone and oestrogenic substances are likely to circulate between the aeration tank and the final sedimentation tank. In summer, however, these compounds were effectively removed in the WWTP. The results of the column chromatography coupled with the bioassay suggested that E1 and E2 are the predominant contributors to the oestrogenicity in the influent, return sludge and effluent of the WWTP. The measurement by the instrumental analysis supported these findings.
OPA1 alternate splicing uncouples an evolutionary conserved function in mitochondrial fusion from a vertebrate restricted function in apoptosis.	In most eucaryote cells, release of apoptotic proteins from mitochondria involves fission of the mitochondrial network and drastic remodelling of the cristae structures. The intramitochondrial dynamin OPA1, as a potential central actor of these processes, exists as eight isoforms resulting from the alternate splicing combinations of exons (Ex) 4, 4b and 5b, which functions remain undetermined. Here, we show that Ex4 that is conserved throughout evolution confers functions to OPA1 involved in the maintenance of the DeltaPsi(m) and in the fusion of the mitochondrial network. Conversely, Ex4b and Ex5b, which are vertebrate specific, define a function involved in cytochrome c release, an apoptotic process also restricted to vertebrates. The drastic changes of OPA1 variant abundance in different organs suggest that nuclear splicing can control mitochondrial dynamic fate and susceptibility to apoptosis and pathologies.
Performance of lactating dairy cows fed whole cottonseed coated with gelatinized starch plus urea or yeast culture.	Thirty lactating Holstein cows were used in an 8-wk randomized design trial to test the viability of select additives included in the gelatinized corn starch coating applied to whole cottonseed (WCS) on nutrient intake and digestibility and milk yield and composition. Treatments included WCS coated with 2.5% gelatinized corn starch (control); control plus 0.5% urea; or control plus 2.0% yeast culture. The treated WCS represented 12.6% of the dietary dry matter. Cellulose intake was lower for the control coating compared with either the urea or yeast coating because of slightly lower cellulose concentrations in the control treatment. Intake of all other nutrients was similar for all treatments. Whole-tract nutrient apparent digestibility was not altered by treatment. Dry matter intake and milk yield were similar among treatments. Percentage solids-not-fat was lower for the yeast treatment compared with control, but no other differences were observed in milk composition among treatments. Efficiency of milk production (energy-corrected milk yield per unit of dry matter intake) was higher for the urea and yeast treatments compared with control because of slightly higher yield of milk fat and energy-corrected milk. No differences were observed in body weight change during the trial between treatments. Results of this trial indicate that including urea or yeast culture in the gelatinized starch coating does not change whole tract digestibility, but does improve milk production efficiency.
Mapping the interaction of cofilin with subdomain 2 on actin.	Cofilin, a member of the actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin family of proteins, is a key regulator of actin dynamics. Cofilin binds to monomer (G-) and filamentous (F-) actin, severs the filaments, and increases their turnover rate. Electron microscopy studies suggested cofilin interactions with subdomains 2 and 1/3 on adjacent actin protomers in F-actin. To probe for the presence of a cryptic cofilin binding site in subdomain 2 in G-actin, we used transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking, which targets Gln41 in subdomain 2. The cross-linking proceeded with up to 85% efficiency with skeletal alpha-actin and WT yeast actin, yielding a single product corresponding to a 1:1 actin-cofilin complex but was strongly inhibited in Q41C yeast actin (in which Q41 was substituted with cysteine). LC-MS/MS analysis of the proteolytic fragments of this complex mapped the cross-linking to Gln41 on actin and Gly1 on recombinant yeast cofilin. The actin-cofilin (AC) heterodimer was purified on FPLC for analytical ultracentrifugation and electron microscopy analysis. Sedimentation equilibrium and velocity runs revealed oligomers of AC in G-actin buffer. In the presence of excess cofilin, the covalent AC heterodimer bound a second cofilin, forming a 2:1 cofilin/actin complex, as revealed by sedimentation results. Under polymerizing conditions the cross-linked AC formed mostly short filaments, which according to image reconstruction were similar to uncross-linked actin-cofilin filaments. Although a majority of the cross-linking occurs at Gln41, a small fraction of the AC cross-linked complex forms in the Q41C yeast actin mutant. This secondary cross-linking site was sequenced by MALDI-MS/MS as linking Gln360 in actin to Lys98 on cofilin. Overall, these results demonstrate that the region around Gln41 (subdomain 2) is involved in a weak binding of cofilin to G-actin.
Dynamics and biodiversity of populations of lactic acid bacteria and acetic acid bacteria involved in spontaneous heap fermentation of cocoa beans in Ghana.	The Ghanaian cocoa bean heap fermentation process was studied through a multiphasic approach, encompassing both microbiological and metabolite target analyses. A culture-dependent (plating and incubation, followed by repetitive-sequence-based PCR analyses of picked-up colonies) and culture-independent (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis [DGGE] of 16S rRNA gene amplicons, PCR-DGGE) approach revealed a limited biodiversity and targeted population dynamics of both lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and acetic acid bacteria (AAB) during fermentation. Four main clusters were identified among the LAB isolated: Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus fermentum, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, and Enterococcus casseliflavus. Other taxa encompassed, for instance, Weissella. Only four clusters were found among the AAB identified: Acetobacter pasteurianus, Acetobacter syzygii-like bacteria, and two small clusters of Acetobacter tropicalis-like bacteria. Particular strains of L. plantarum, L. fermentum, and A. pasteurianus, originating from the environment, were well adapted to the environmental conditions prevailing during Ghanaian cocoa bean heap fermentation and apparently played a significant role in the cocoa bean fermentation process. Yeasts produced ethanol from sugars, and LAB produced lactic acid, acetic acid, ethanol, and mannitol from sugars and/or citrate. Whereas L. plantarum strains were abundant in the beginning of the fermentation, L. fermentum strains converted fructose into mannitol upon prolonged fermentation. A. pasteurianus grew on ethanol, mannitol, and lactate and converted ethanol into acetic acid. A newly proposed Weissella sp., referred to as "Weissella ghanaensis," was detected through PCR-DGGE analysis in some of the fermentations and was only occasionally picked up through culture-based isolation. Two new species of Acetobacter were found as well, namely, the species tentatively named "Acetobacter senegalensis" (A. tropicalis-like) and "Acetobacter ghanaensis" (A. syzygii-like).
NetPhosYeast: prediction of protein phosphorylation sites in yeast.	We here present a neural network-based method for the prediction of protein phosphorylation sites in yeast--an important model organism for basic research. Existing protein phosphorylation site predictors are primarily based on mammalian data and show reduced sensitivity on yeast phosphorylation sites compared to those in humans, suggesting the need for an yeast-specific phosphorylation site predictor. NetPhosYeast achieves a correlation coefficient close to 0.75 with a sensitivity of 0.84 and specificity of 0.90 and outperforms existing predictors in the identification of phosphorylation sites in yeast.
Biological assessments of a mixture of endocrine disruptors at environmentally relevant concentrations in water following UV/H2O2 oxidation.	Numerous studies have investigated degradation of individual endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) in lab or natural waters. However, natural variations in water matrices and mixtures of EDCs in the environment may confound analysis of the treatment efficiency. Because chemical based analytical methods cannot represent the combined or synergistic activities between water quality parameters and/or the EDC mixtures at environmentally relevant concentrations (microg L(-1)-ng L(-1)), bioanalytical assessments of residual estrogenic activity in treated water were used to evaluate the performance of the UV based advanced oxidation process for estrogenic contaminants in water. Four EDCs including estradiol (E(2)), ethinyl estradiol (EE(2)), bisphenol-A (BPA) and nonylphenol (NP) were spiked individually or as a mixture at mug L(-1)-ng L(-1) in laboratory or natural river water. The removal rates of estrogenic activity were quantitatively evaluated by in vitro yeast estrogen screen (YES) and in vivo Vitellogenin (VTG) assays with Japanese medaka fish (Oryzias latipes). UV in combination with 10 ppm H(2)O(2) as an oxidation process was capable of decreasing in vitro and in vivo estrogenic activity, however, in vivo estrogenic activity of the EDC mixture in natural water was not completely removed at UV fluence up to 2000 mJ cm(-2). The removal rates of in vitro estrogenic activity of the EDC mixtures were lower than those observed for single compounds, and slower in natural waters, likely due to lower steady-state concentrations of hydroxyl radicals (*OH) in the presence of *OH scavengers from the water matrix and EDC mixture.
PIC1, an ancient permease in Arabidopsis chloroplasts, mediates iron transport.	In chloroplasts, the transition metals iron and copper play an essential role in photosynthetic electron transport and act as cofactors for superoxide dismutases. Iron is essential for chlorophyll biosynthesis, and ferritin clusters in plastids store iron during germination, development, and iron stress. Thus, plastidic homeostasis of transition metals, in particular of iron, is crucial for chloroplast as well as plant development. However, very little is known about iron uptake by chloroplasts. Arabidopsis thaliana PERMEASE IN CHLOROPLASTS1 (PIC1), identified in a screen for metal transporters in plastids, contains four predicted alpha-helices, is targeted to the inner envelope, and displays homology with cyanobacterial permease-like proteins. Knockout mutants of PIC1 grew only heterotrophically and were characterized by a chlorotic and dwarfish phenotype reminiscent of iron-deficient plants. Ultrastructural analysis of plastids revealed severely impaired chloroplast development and a striking increase in ferritin clusters. Besides upregulation of ferritin, pic1 mutants showed differential regulation of genes and proteins related to iron stress or transport, photosynthesis, and Fe-S cluster biogenesis. Furthermore, PIC1 and its cyanobacterial homolog mediated iron accumulation in an iron uptake-defective yeast mutant. These observations suggest that PIC1 functions in iron transport across the inner envelope of chloroplasts and hence in cellular metal homeostasis.
Conformational flexibility in the chromatin remodeler RSC observed by electron microscopy and the orthogonal tilt reconstruction method.	Chromatin remodeling complexes (remodelers) are large, multisubunit macromolecular assemblies that use ATP hydrolysis to alter the structure and positioning of nucleosomes. The mechanisms proposed for remodeler action on nucleosomes are diverse, and require structural evaluation and insights. Previous reconstructions of remodelers using electron microscopy revealed interesting features, but also significant discrepancies, prompting new approaches. Here, we use the orthogonal tilt reconstruction method, which is well suited for heterogeneous samples, to provide a reconstruction of the yeast RSC (remodel the structure of chromatin) complex. Two interesting features are revealed: first, we observe a deep central cavity within RSC, displaying a remarkable surface complementarity for the nucleosome. Second, we are able to visualize two distinct RSC conformers, revealing a major conformational change in a large protein "arm," which may shift to further envelop the nucleosome. We present a model of the RSC-nucleosome complex that rationalizes the single molecule results obtained by using optical tweezers and also discuss the mechanistic implications of our structures.
Solid-state NMR study of amyloid nanocrystals and fibrils formed by the peptide GNNQQNY from yeast prion protein Sup35p.	Sup35p is a prion protein found in yeast that contains a prion-forming domain characterized by a repetitive sequence rich in Gln, Asn, Tyr, and Gly amino acid residues. The peptide GNNQQNY7-13 is one of the shortest segments of this domain found to form amyloid fibrils, in a fashion similar to the protein itself. Upon dissolution in water, GNNQQNY displays a concentration-dependent polymorphism, forming monoclinic and orthorhombic crystals at low concentrations and amyloid fibrils at higher concentrations. We prepared nanocrystals of both space groups as well as fibril samples that reproducibly contain three (coexisting) structural forms and examined the specimens with magic angle spinning (MAS) solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance. 13C and 15N MAS spectra of both nanocrystals and fibrils reveal narrow resonances indicative of a high level of microscopic sample homogeneity that permitted resonance assignments of all five species. We observed variations in chemical shift among the three dominant forms of the fibrils which were indicated by the presence of three distinct, self-consistent sets of correlated NMR signals. Similarly, the monoclinic and orthorhombic crystals exhibit chemical shifts that differ from one another and from the fibrils. Collectively, the chemical shift data suggest that the peptide assumes five conformations in the crystals and fibrils that differ from one another in subtle but distinct ways. This includes variations in the mobility of the aromatic Tyr ring. The data also suggest that various structures assumed by the peptide may be correlated to the "steric zipper" observed in the monoclinic crystals.
A mutant of the Arabidopsis phosphate transporter PHT1;1 displays enhanced arsenic accumulation.	The exceptional toxicity of arsenate [As(V)] is derived from its close chemical similarity to phosphate (Pi), which allows the metalloid to be easily incorporated into plant cells through the high-affinity Pi transport system. In this study, we identified an As(V)-tolerant mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana named pht1;1-3, which harbors a semidominant allele coding for the high-affinity Pi transporter PHT1;1. pht1;1-3 displays a slow rate of As(V) uptake that ultimately enables the mutant to accumulate double the arsenic found in wild-type plants. Overexpression of the mutant protein in wild-type plants provokes phenotypic effects similar to pht1;1-3 with regard to As(V) uptake and accumulation. In addition, gene expression analysis of wild-type and mutant plants revealed that, in Arabidopsis, As(V) represses the activation of genes specifically involved in Pi uptake, while inducing others transcriptionally regulated by As(V), suggesting that converse signaling pathways are involved in plant responses to As(V) and low Pi availability. Furthermore, the repression effect of As(V) on Pi starvation responses may reflect a regulatory mechanism to protect plants from the extreme toxicity of arsenic.
Network analysis of systems elements.	A central goal of postgenomic research is to assign a function to every predicted gene. Because genes often cooperate in order to establish and regulate cellular events the examination of a gene has also included the search for at least a few interacting genes. This requires a strong hypothesis about possible interaction partners, which has often been derived from what was known about the gene or protein beforehand. Many times, though, this prior knowledge has either been completely lacking, biased towards favored concepts, or only partial due to the theoretically vast interaction space. With the advent of high-throughput technology and robotics in biological research, it has become possible to study gene function on a global scale, monitoring entire genomes and proteomes at once. These systematic approaches aim at considering all possible dependencies between genes or their products, thereby exploring the interaction space at a systems scale. This chapter provides an introduction to network analysis and illustrates the corresponding concepts on the basis of gene expression data. First, an overview of existing methods for the identification of co-regulated genes is given. Second, the issue of topology inference is discussed and as an example a specific inference method is presented. And lastly, the application of these techniques is demonstrated for the Arabidopsis thaliana isoprenoid pathway.
Factors affecting the outcome of the acidification power test of yeast quality: critical reappraisal.	Brewery bottom yeast strain 95 from the Pilsner Urquell propagation unit was used to reappraise the efficiency of the acidification power (AP) test consisting in determining the spontaneous (oxygen-induced) and glucose-induced medium acidification caused by yeast and lactic acid bacteria under standard conditions, and used widely for assessing and predicting the vitality of industrial strains. AP was evaluated in yeast stored for different periods of time (0-28 d) at 4 degrees C, at different temperatures before and during the test (0-55 degrees C), and at different concentrations of cells and glucose and different cells-to-glucose ratios. All these factors had a strong effect on acidification kinetics and the AP value. By contrast, the duration of the lag period between yeast collection and the test (0-6 h) had no perceptible effect on the AP value. The best results were achieved at saturation concentrations of cells (> 10 g pressed yeast or approximately 14 g yeast slurry per 100 mL) and glucose (approximately 3 %) and at 25 degrees C. Since an exact evaluation of acidification characteristics depends strongly on the kinetics of the process, the AP test should include monitoring the time course of the acidification.
Improved functional prediction of proteins by learning kernel combinations in multilabel settings.	We develop a probabilistic model for combining kernel matrices to predict the function of proteins. It extends previous approaches in that it can handle multiple labels which naturally appear in the context of protein function.
Isolation and characterization of mAMSA-hypersensitive mutants. Cytotoxicity of Top2 covalent complexes containing DNA single strand breaks.	Topoisomerase II (Top2) is the primary target for active anti-cancer agents. We developed an efficient approach for identifying hypersensitive Top2 mutants and isolated a panel of mutants in yeast Top2 conferring hypersensitivity to the intercalator N-[4-(9-acridinylamino)-3-methoxyphenyl]methanesulphonanilide (mAMSA). Some mutants conferred hypersensitivity to etoposide as well as mAMSA, whereas other mutants exhibited hypersensitivity only to mAMSA. Two mutants in Top2, changing Pro(473) to Leu and Gly(737) to Val, conferred extraordinary hypersensitivity to mAMSA and were chosen for further characterization. The mutant proteins were purified, and their biochemical activities were assessed. Both mutants encode enzymes that are hypersensitive to inhibition by mAMSA and other intercalating agents and exhibited elevated levels of mAMSA-induced Top2:DNA covalent complexes. While Gly(737) --> Val Top2p generated elevated levels of Top2-mediated double strand breaks in vitro, the Pro(473) --> Leu mutant protein showed only a modest increase in Top2-mediated double strand breaks but much higher levels of Top2-mediated single strand breaks. In addition, the Pro(473) --> Leu mutant protein also generated high levels of mAMSA-stabilized covalent complexes in the absence of ATP. We tested the role of single strand cleavage in cell killing with alleles of Top2 that could generate single strand breaks, but not double strand breaks. Expression in yeast of a Pro(473) --> Leu mutant that could only generate single strand breaks conferred hypersensitivity to mAMSA. These results indicate that generation of single strand breaks by Top2-targeting agents can be an important component of cell killing by Top2-targeting drugs.
Development of a method to measure hydrogen sulfide in wine fermentation.	A hydrogen sulfide (H2S) detecting tube was developed for the quantitative determination of H2S produced by yeast during laboratory scale wine fermentations. The detecting tube consisted of a small transparent plastic tube packed with an H2S-sensitive color-indicating medium. The packed medium changed color, with the color change progressing upward from the bottom of the tube, upon exposure to H2S produced by yeast during fermentation. A calibration study using a standard H2S gas showed that the length of the portion that darkened was directly related to the quantity of H2S (microg) with a high correlation coefficient (r2=0.9997). The reproducibility of the H2S detecting tubes was determined with five repetitive measurements using a standard H2S solution [5.6 microg/200 ml (28 ppb)], which resulted in a coefficient of variation of 3.6% at this level of H2S. With the sulfide detecting tubes, the production of H2S was continuously monitored and quantified from laboratory scale wine fermentations with different yeast strains and with the addition of different levels of elemental sulfur to the grape juice. This sulfide detecting tube technology may allow winemakers to quantitatively measure H2S produced under different fermentation conditions, which will eventually lead winemakers to better understand the specific factors and conditions for the excessive production of H2S during wine fermentation in a large production scale.
Dynamic changes in the subcellular distribution of Gpd1p in response to cell stress.	Gpd1p is a cytosolic NAD(+)-dependent glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase that also localizes to peroxisomes and plays an essential role in the cellular response to osmotic stress and a role in redox balance. Here, we show that Gpd1p is directed to peroxisomes by virtue of an N-terminal type 2 peroxisomal targeting signal (PTS2) in a Pex7p-dependent manner. Significantly, localization of Gpd1p to peroxisomes is dependent on the metabolic status of cells and the phosphorylation of aminoacyl residues adjacent to the targeting signal. Exposure of cells to osmotic stress induces changes in the subcellular distribution of Gpd1p to the cytosol and nucleus. This behavior is similar to Pnc1p, which is coordinately expressed with Gpd1p, and under conditions of cell stress changes its subcellular distribution from peroxisomes to the nucleus where it mediates chromatin silencing. Although peroxisomes are necessary for the beta-oxidation of fatty acids in yeast, the localization of Gpd1p to peroxisomes is not. Rather, shifts in the distribution of Gpd1p to different cellular compartments in response to changing cellular status suggests a role for Gpd1p in the spatial regulation of redox potential, a process critical to cell survival, especially under the complex stress conditions expected to occur in the wild.
Effect of COD level and HRT on microbial community in a yeast-predominant activated sludge system.	This study was conducted to compare the effect of influent chemical oxygen demand (COD(in)) level and hydraulic retention time (HRT), two primary components of influent COD loading rate (COD(LR)), on the structure and function of sludge microbial community in a yeast-predominant activated sludge system (1m Hx0.2m D) for synthetic industrial wastewater. A combination of polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis with BIOLOG community-level physiological profiles was used. At higher COD(LR) and higher COD(in) and identical HRTs, more microbial species were supported and could metabolise a greater variety of carbon sources in the aerated column. Conversely, a shorter HRT at identical COD(in) supported fewer microbial species, which resulted in the metabolism of fewer carbon sources.
Methods for mitigation of bio-oil extract toxicity.	Levoglucosan (1,6-anhydro-beta-d-glucopyranose) and other anhydrosugars can be produced in significant quantities during fast pyrolysis of lignocellulosic material. Levoglucosan can be extracted and hydrolyzed to produce fermentable glucose, however co-extraction of fermentation inhibitors can reduce ethanol yields. This work was aimed at evaluating various methods for mitigating the toxicity of bio-oil aqueous extract. Among the detoxification techniques tested, it was found that overliming and solvent extraction were able to improve the fermentability of bio-oil hydrolyzates. Overliming was able to increase the yield of ethanol from bio-oil hydrolyzate by 0.19+/-0.01 (g ethanol/g glucose) at 50% volume hydrolyzate and 0.45+/-0.05 (g ethanol/g glucose) at 40% volume hydrolyzate. A number of extractants were examined and the best solvent was tri-n-octylamine with co-solvent 1-octanol. It was able to selectively (100% glucose retention) remove at least 90+/-6.8% of acetic acid, which was the targeted inhibitor in bio-oil hydrolyzate. This increased the ethanol yield by 0.24 (g ethanol/g glucose) at 40% volume of hydrolyzate. In addition, a technique called adaptive evolution of yeasts was applied, which was capable of increasing the ethanol yield by up to 39% when compared with the unadapted parental strains.
Fermentation and aerobic metabolism of cellodextrins by yeasts.	The fermentation and aerobic metabolism of cellodextrins by 14 yeast species or strains was monitored. When grown aerobically, Candida wickerhamii, C. guilliermondii, and C. molischiana metabolized cellodextrins of degree of polymerization 3 to 6. C. wickerhamii and C. molischiana also fermented these substrates, while C. guilliermondii fermented only cellodextrins of degree of polymerization less than or equal to 3. Debaryomyces polymorphus, Pichia guilliermondii, Clavispora lusitaniae, and one of two strains of Kluyveromyces lactis metabolized glucose, cellobiose, and cellotriose when grown aerobically. These yeasts also fermented these substrates, except for K. lactis, which fermented only glucose and cellobiose. The remaining species/strains tested, K. lactis, Brettano-myces claussenii, B. anomalus, K. dobzhanskii, Rhodotorula minuta, and Dekkera intermedia, both fermented and aerobically metabolized glucose and cellobiose. Crude enzyme preparations from all 14 yeast species or strains were tested for ability to hydrolyze cellotriose and cellotretose. Most of the yeasts produced an enzyme(s) capable of hydrolyzing cellotriose. However, with two exceptions, R. minuta and P. guilliermondii, only the yeasts that metabolized cellodextrins of degree of polymerization greater than 3 produced an enzyme(s) that hydrolyzed cellotretose.
PUF proteins: repression, activation and mRNA localization.	The eukaryotic family of RNA-binding proteins termed PUF (Pumilio and FBF) is known for its roles in cell division, differentiation and development. The best-characterized function of PUFs is as posttranscriptional repressors. Recent studies have indicated that PUFs can also activate gene expression. Moreover, it is becoming clear that PUFs facilitate mRNA localization for spatial control of expression. Here, we review the emerging concept of PUF proteins as versatile posttranscriptional regulators. We discuss how the functions of PUFs as repressors and mRNA targeting factors could be integrated by focusing on Puf3 and Puf6 from yeast and propose a model for how the roles of Puf3 in mRNA targeting to the mitochondria and mRNA repression might promote cotranslational import into mitochondria and mitochondrial biogenesis.
Mitochondria autophagy in yeast.	The mitochondrion is an organelle that carries out a number of important metabolic processes such as fatty acid oxidation, the citric acid cycle, and oxidative phosphorylation. However, this multitasking organelle also generates reactive oxygen species (ROS), which can cause oxidative stress resulting in self-damage. This type of mitochondrial damage can lead to the further production of ROS and a resulting downward spiral with regard to mitochondrial capability. This is extremely problematic because the accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria is related to aging, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Accordingly, appropriate quality control of this organelle is important to maintain proper cellular homeostasis. It has been thought that selective mitochondria autophagy (mitophagy) contributes to the maintenance of mitochondrial quality by eliminating damaged or excess mitochondria, although little is known about the mechanism. Recent studies in yeast identified several mitophagy-related proteins, which have been characterized with regard to their function and regulation. In this article, we review recent advances in the physiology and molecular mechanism of mitophagy and discuss the similarities and differences of this degradation process between yeast and mammalian cells.
Bioreduction of ,-unsaturated ketones and aldehydes by non-conventional yeast (NCY) whole-cells.	The bioreduction of ,-unsaturated ketones (ketoisophorone, 2-methyl- and 3-methyl-cyclopentenone) and aldehydes [(S)-(-)-perillaldehyde and -methyl-cinnamaldehyde] by 23 "non-conventional" yeasts (NCYs) belonging to 21 species of the genera Candida, Cryptococcus, Debaryomyces, Hanseniaspora, Kazachstania, Kluyveromyces, Lindnera, Nakaseomyces, Vanderwaltozyma, and Wickerhamomyces was reported. The results highlight the potential of NCYs as whole-cell biocatalysts for selective biotransformation of electron-poor alkenes. A few NCYs exhibited extremely high (>90%) or even total ketoisophorone and 2-methyl-cyclopentenone bioconversion yields via asymmetric reduction of the conjugated CC bond catalyzed by enoate reductases. Catalytic efficiency declined after switching from ketones to aldehydes. High chemoselectivity due to low competing carbonyl reductases was also sometimes observed.
Enhancement of diepoxin  production by yeast extract and its fractions in liquid culture of Berkleasmium-like endophytic fungus Dzf12 from Dioscorea zingiberensis.	This study was to examine the effects of yeast extract (YE) and its fractions (YE1 and YE2) on the growth and diepoxin  (a spirobisnaphthalene with a diversity of bioactivities) production in liquid culture of Berkleasmium-like endophytic fungus Dzf12 from Dioscorea zingiberensis. When YE was applied to the liquid medium at 10 g/L on day 3 of culture, the diepoxin  production was most effectively enhanced 3.2-fold (378.70 mg/L versus 120.09 mg/L in control) after another 10 days culture. Feeding with 15 g/L of YE on day 9, the mycelia biomass reached 16.44 g/L, about 2.3-fold in comparison with the control (7.15 g/L). The polysaccharide fraction (YE1) was mainly responsible for stimulating diepoxin  accumulation, and the non-polysaccharide fraction (YE2) was mainly responsible for promoting mycelia growth. The results showed that the diepoxin  production in liquid culture of endophyte Dzf12 could be effectively enhanced by YE and its fractions.
Coordination of Golgi functions by phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases.	Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases (PI4Ks) regulate vesicle-mediated export from the Golgi apparatus via phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) binding effector proteins that control vesicle budding reactions and regulate membrane dynamics. Evidence has emerged from the characterization of Golgi PI4K effectors that vesicle budding and lipid dynamics are tightly coupled via a regulatory network that ensures that the appropriate membrane composition is established before a transport vesicle buds from the Golgi. An important hub of this network is protein kinase D, which regulates the activity of PI4K and several PtdIns4P effectors that control sphingolipid and sterol content of Golgi membranes. Other newly identified PtdIns4P effectors include Vps74/GOLPH3, a phospholipid flippase called Drs2 and Sec2, a Rab guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). These effectors orchestrate membrane transformation events facilitating vesicle formation and targeting. In this review, we discuss how PtdIns4P signaling is integrated with membrane biosynthetic and vesicle budding machineries to potentially coordinate these crucial functions of the Golgi apparatus.
CDK8: a positive regulator of transcription.	CDK8 belongs to a group of cyclin-dependent kinases involved in transcriptional regulation from yeast to mammals. CDK8 associates with the Mediator complex, but functions outside of Mediator are also likely. Historically, CDK8 has been described mostly as a transcriptional repressor, but a growing body of research provides unequivocal evidence for various roles of CDK8 in gene activation. Several transcriptional programs of biomedical importance employ CDK8 as a co-activator, including the p53 network, the Wnt/-catenin pathway, the serum response network, and those governed by SMADs and the thyroid hormone receptor, thus highlighting the importance of further investigation into this enigmatic transcriptional regulator.
(1)H NMR-based metabolic profiling reveals inherent biological variation in yeast and nematode model systems.	The application of metabolomics to human and animal model systems is poised to provide great insight into our understanding of disease etiology and the metabolic changes that are associated with these conditions. However, metabolomic studies have also revealed that there is significant, inherent biological variation in human samples and even in samples from animal model systems where the animals are housed under carefully controlled conditions. This inherent biological variability is an important consideration for all metabolomics analyses. In this study, we examined the biological variation in (1)H NMR-based metabolic profiling of two model systems, the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Using relative standard deviations (RSD) as a measure of variability, our results reveal that both model systems have significant amounts of biological variation. The C. elegans metabolome possesses greater metabolic variance with average RSD values of 29 and 39%, depending on the food source that was used. The S. cerevisiae exometabolome RSD values ranged from 8% to 12% for the four strains examined. We also determined whether biological variation occurs between pairs of phenotypically identical yeast strains. Multivariate statistical analysis allowed us to discriminate between pair members based on their metabolic phenotypes. Our results highlight the variability of the metabolome that exists even for less complex model systems cultured under defined conditions. We also highlight the efficacy of metabolic profiling for defining these subtle metabolic alterations.
Conformational dynamics of the molecular chaperone Hsp90.	The ubiquitous molecular chaperone Hsp90 makes up 1-2% of cytosolic proteins and is required for viability in eukaryotes. Hsp90 affects the folding and activation of a wide variety of substrate proteins including many involved in signaling and regulatory processes. Some of these substrates are implicated in cancer and other diseases, making Hsp90 an attractive drug target. Structural analyses have shown that Hsp90 is a highly dynamic and flexible molecule that can adopt a wide variety of structurally distinct states. One driving force for these rearrangements is the intrinsic ATPase activity of Hsp90, as seen with other chaperones. However, unlike other chaperones, studies have shown that the ATPase cycle of Hsp90 is not conformationally deterministic. That is, rather than dictating the conformational state, ATP binding and hydrolysis only shift the equilibria between a pre-existing set of conformational states. For bacterial, yeast and human Hsp90, there is a conserved three-state (apo-ATP-ADP) conformational cycle; however; the equilibria between states are species specific. In eukaryotes, cytosolic co-chaperones regulate the in vivo dynamic behavior of Hsp90 by shifting conformational equilibria and affecting the kinetics of structural changes and ATP hydrolysis. In this review, we discuss the structural and biochemical studies leading to our current understanding of the conformational dynamics of Hsp90, as well as the roles that nucleotide, co-chaperones, post-translational modification and substrates play. This view of Hsp90's conformational dynamics was enabled by the use of multiple complementary structural methods including, crystallography, small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), electron microscopy, Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) and NMR. Finally, we discuss the effects of Hsp90 inhibitors on conformation and the potential for developing small molecules that inhibit Hsp90 by disrupting the conformational dynamics.
Oil production by oleaginous yeasts using the hydrolysate from pretreatment of wheat straw with dilute sulfuric acid.	This paper explores the use of the hydrolysate from the dilute sulfuric acid pretreatment of wheat straw for microbial oil production. The resulting hydrolysate was composed of pentoses (24.3g/L) and hexoses (4.9 g/L), along with some other degradation products, such as acetic acid, furfural, and hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). Five oleaginous yeast strains, Cryptococcus curvatus, Rhodotorula glutinis, Rhodosporidium toruloides, Lipomyces starkeyi, and Yarrowia lipolytica, were evaluated by using this hydrolysate as substrates. The results showed that all of these strains could use the detoxified hydrolysate to produce lipids while except R. toruloides non-detoxified hydrolysate could also be used for the growth of all of the selective yeast strains. C. curvatus showed the highest lipid concentrations in medium on both the detoxified (4.2g/L) and non-detoxified (5.8 g/L) hydrolysates. And the inhibitory effect studies on C. curvatus indicated HMF had insignificant impacts at a concentration of up to 3g/L while furfural inhibited cell growth and lipid content by 72.0% and 62.0% at 1g/L, respectively. Our work demonstrates that lipid production is a promising alternative to utilize hemicellulosic sugars obtained during pretreatment of lignocellulosic materials.
Industrial yeast strain engineered to ferment ethanol from lignocellulosic biomass.	In this study an industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast strain capable of fermenting ethanol from pretreated lignocellulosic material was engineered. Genes encoding cellulases (endoglucanase, exoglucanase and -glucosidase) were integrated into the chromosomal ribosomal DNA and delta regions of a derivative of the K1-V1116 wine yeast strain. The engineered cellulolytic yeast produces ethanol in one step through simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of pretreated biomass without the addition of exogenously produced enzymes. When ethanol fermentation was performed with 10% dry weight of pretreated corn stover, the recombinant strain fermented 63% of the cellulose in 96 h and the ethanol titer reached 2.6% v/v. These results demonstrate that cellulolytic S. cerevisiae strains can be used as a platform for developing an economical advanced biofuel process.
Synthesis of hollow ZrO2 mesopores microspheres with strong adsorption capability by the yeast bio-template route.	In this work, cage-like ZrO2 and hollow ZrO2 microspheres with high surface area and strong adsorption capability were successfully synthesized by microwave- ethanol-thermal method using yeasts as bio-template. XRD, SEM, EDS and BET were used to characterize the products. The results show that these micropheres have a size of about 2-3 microm and are composed by ZrO2 particles of 30-40 nm. The maximum specific surface area of them can reach to 384.780 m2/g and there are presences of the inhomogeneous mesopores. Moreover, the template can be removed and tetragonal phase ZrO2 can be obtained without using calcinations, which greatly simplifies the experimental procedure. We also studied the adsorption capability of cage-like ZrO2 and hollow ZrO2 microspheres to methyl orange, the highest adsorption percent was up to 99.5%. The adsorption isotherm conforms to Freundlich equation.
Effects of supplementation with yeast culture and enzymatically hydrolyzed yeast on performance of early lactation dairy cattle.	One hundred fifty multiparous cows were balanced to 1 of 3 treatments (2 pens/trt) according to previous lactation 305-d mature equivalent yield to evaluate supplementation with yeast culture (YC; A-Max, Vi-COR, Mason, IA) and YC plus enzymatically hydrolyzed yeast (YC+EHY; Celmanax, Vi-COR) on production performance in dairy cattle. Cows entered pens at calving and remained through 14 wk postpartum. Treatment assignment to pens was random throughout the barn. Pens were identical in layout and each contained an exit alley to eliminate feed and animal mixing. The 3 treatments were control: nonsupplemented; YC: control diet with YC (56 g/d); and YC+EHY: control diet plus YC and EHY (28 g/d). Mean pen dry matter intake was similar across treatments. Cows supplemented with YC and YC+EHY produced more milk, fat-corrected milk, and energy-corrected milk than control cows (1.4 and 1.6, 1.6 and 1.8, 1.7 and 1.9 kg, respectively). Treatments YC and YC+EHY did not differ. Milk fat and lactose percentages were not affected by treatment. Milk protein percentage was higher for cows supplemented with YC+EHY than for those on YC and control treatments (2.98, 2.93, and 2.91%, respectively) with control and YC-supplemented cows not being different from each other. Differences in fat and protein yields were primarily reflective of milk yield. Treatment had no effect on milk urea nitrogen. No differences in the incidence of metabolic health were observed; however, cases of clinical mastitis for YC+EHY were less than half those for control and YC during wk 8 to 14 on trial. Somatic cell count was higher for cows fed control and YC diets compared with YC+EHY, primarily during wk 8 to 14 on trial. Supplementation of early lactation cows with YC improved milk production performance; furthermore, EHY supplementation improved milk protein percentage and mammary gland health.
Model organisms in molecular nutrition research.	The complexity of food organism interactions necessitates the use of model organisms to understand physiological and pathological processes. In nutrition research, model organisms were initially used to understand how macro and micronutrients are handled in the organism. Currently, in nutritional systems biology, models of increasing complexity are needed in order to determine the global organisation of a biological system and the interaction with food and food components. Originally driven by genetics, certain model organisms have become most prominent. Model organisms are more accessible systems than human beings and include bacteria, yeast, flies, worms, and mammals such as mice. Here, the origin and the reasons to become the most prominent models are presented. Moreover, their applicability in molecular nutrition research is illustrated with selected examples.
The effects of active dried and killed dried yeast on subacute ruminal acidosis, ruminal fermentation, and nutrient digestibility in beef heifers.	The study addressed the importance of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) viability for reducing the incidence of subacute ruminal acidosis (SARA) and improving total tract nutrient digestibility in beef heifers. Six ruminally cannulated beef heifers (680  50 kg BW) were used in a replicated 3  3 Latin square design and were fed a diet consisting of 40% barley silage, 10% chopped grass hay, and 50% barley grain-based concentrate (DM basis). Treatments were 1) no yeast (Control), 2) active dried yeast (ADY; 4 g providing 10(10) cfu/g; AB Vista, Marlborough, UK), and 3) killed dried yeast (KDY; 4 g autoclaved ADY). The treatments were directly dosed via the ruminal cannula daily at the time of feeding. The periods consisted of 2 wk of adaptation (d 1 to 14) and 7 d of measurements (d 15 to 21). Ruminal pH was continuously measured (d 15 to 21) using an indwelling system. Ruminal contents were sampled on d 15 and 17 at 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 h after feeding. Total tract nutrient digestibility was measured using an external marker (YbCl3) from d 15 to 19. No treatment difference was observed for DMI (P = 0.86). Yeast supplementation (ADY and KDY) tended to increase total tract digestibility of starch (P = 0.07) whereas no effects were observed on digestibility of other nutrients. Both ADY and KDY elevated minimum (P < 0.01) and mean ruminal pH (P = 0.02) whereas no effects were observed on maximum pH (P = 0.12). Irrespective of its viability, yeast supplementation was effective in reducing time that ruminal pH was below 5.8 (P < 0.01) and 5.6 (P < 0.01). No treatment differences were observed for the ruminal VFA profile and lactate concentration. No treatment differences were observed on the relative population size of Streptococcus bovis, Fibrobacter succinogenes, and Megasphaera elsdenii (P > 0.10); however, the proportion of Ruminococcus flavefaciens in solid fraction of digesta was greater with KDY (P = 0.05). The study demonstrates the positive effects of yeast, irrespective of its viability, in reducing the severity of SARA. However, further studies are required to evaluate the importance of yeast viability for other dietary conditions, particularly when the risk of acidosis is high.
Ethanol fermentation of energy beets by self-flocculating and non-flocculating yeasts.	Specialized varieties of sugar beets (Energy Beets) are being developed for producing industrial sugars in Arkansas' Mississippi River Delta. To evaluate their suitability for producing regional fermentation feedstocks, we report initial cultivation trials and ethanol fermentation of raw beet juice and combined juice with pulp mash (JPM) liquefied with enzymes, comparing ethanol yields under different regimes by self-flocculating and non-flocculating yeasts. Nine varieties produced root yields averaging 115Mg/ha and 18.5% sucrose contents. Raw beet juice fermentation yielded ethanol up to 0.48g/g (sugar). JPM was directly fermented through either a sequential (SeqSF) or simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) process. For both yeast types, SSF was a more efficient process than SeqSF, with ethanol yields up to 0.47g/g (sugar) and volumetric productivity up to 7.81g/L/h. These results indicate the self-flocculating yeast is suitable for developing efficient bioprocesses to ferment industrial sugar from energy beets. 
Insights into structural mechanisms of gating induced regulation of aquaporins.	Aquaporin family comprises of transmembrane channels that are specialized in conducting water and certain small, uncharged molecules across cell membranes. Essential roles of aquaporins in various physiological and pathophysiological conditions have attracted great scientific interest. Pioneering structural studies on aquaporins have almost solved the basic question of mechanism of selective water transport through these channels. Another important structural aspect of aquaporins which seeks attention is that how the flow of water through the channel is regulated by the mechanism of gating. Aquaporins are also regulated at the protein level, i.e. by trafficking which includes changes in their expression levels in the membrane. Availability of high resolution structures along with numerous molecular dynamics simulation studies have helped to gain an understanding of the structural mechanisms by which water flux through aquaporins is controlled. This review will summarize the highlights regarding structural features of aquaporins, mechanisms governing water permeation, proton exclusion and substrate specificity, and describe the structural insights into the mechanisms of aquaporin gating whereby water conduction is regulated by post translational modifications, such as phosphorylation. 
Identification of a BET family bromodomain/casein kinase II/TAF-containing complex as a regulator of mitotic condensin function.	Condensin is a central regulator of mitotic genome structure with mutants showing poorly condensed chromosomes and profound segregation defects. Here, we identify NCT, a complex comprising the Nrc1 BET-family tandem bromodomain protein (SPAC631.02), casein kinase II (CKII), and several TAFs, as a regulator of condensin function. We show that NCT and condensin bind similar genomic regions but only briefly colocalize during the periods of chromosome condensation and decondensation. This pattern of NCT binding at the core centromere, the region of maximal condensin enrichment, tracks the abundance of acetylated histone H4, as regulated by the Hat1-Mis16 acetyltransferase complex and recognized by the first Nrc1 bromodomain. Strikingly, mutants in NCT or Hat1-Mis16 restore the formation of segregation-competent chromosomes in cells containing defective condensin. These results are consistent with a model where NCT targets CKII to chromatin in a cell-cycle-directed manner in order to modulate the activity of condensin during chromosome condensation and decondensation.
Measuring kinetochore-microtubule interaction in vitro.	Many proteins and protein complexes perform sophisticated, regulated functions in vivo. Many of these functions can be recapitulated using in vitro reconstitution, which serves as a means to establish unambiguous cause-effect relationships, for example, between a protein and its phosphorylating kinase. Here, we describe a protocol to purify kinetochores, the protein complexes that attach chromosomes to microtubules during mitosis, and quantitatively assay their microtubule-binding characteristics. Our assays, based on DIC imaging and laser trapping microscopy, are used to measure the attachment of microtubules to kinetochores and the load-bearing capabilities of those attachments. These assays provide a platform for studying kinase disruption of kinetochore-microtubule attachments, which is believed to be critical for correcting erroneous kinetochore-spindle attachments and thereby avoiding chromosome missegregation. The principles of our approach should be extensible to studies of a wide range of force-bearing interactions in biology. 
Utilization of phenol by hydrocarbon assimilating yeasts.	77 Ascomycetous, basidiomycetous as well as imperfect yeast strains of 46 different species and 20 genera were tested for growth with the substrates n-octane, n-hexadecane, and phenol. Of 59 yeast strains with ascomycetous cell wall structure 33 grew on hydrocarbons and 32 on phenol. No yeast strain out of 26 which are unable to use n-alkanes as a source of carbon and energy grew on phenol. In comparison with the latter 32 out of 33 n-hexadecane assimilating yeasts were also capable of using phenol. All n-octane utilizing yeasts of this group also assimilate phenol as a carbon source for growth. The correlation of the hydrocarbon assimilation with the phenol assimilation seems to be not so strong in the basidiomycetous yeasts. 7 out of 18 strains from this group grew on n-hexadecane and 13 on phenol. Furthermore, it could be shown that the use of hydrocarbons and phenol (as well as methanol) is strongly correlated with the coenzyme Q structure of the respective yeast strain. The results are discussed with respect to the particular chemical properties of the substrates used and the fact that coenzyme Q structure is considered to be an important marker of evolutionary relationships among yeasts.
Theorectical mechanisms for synthesis of carcinogen-induced embryonic proteins: III. The tRNA methylases; methylation mechanism and function.	It is contended that redundant repressed tRed) with carcinogens in adult cells. Supportive evidence, especially from molecular model building, is presented for a mechanism of tRNA methylation. In this mechanism the adenine moiety of S-adenosyl-L-methionine base-pairs with uracil for all tRNA methylations. Furthermore it is proposed that such methylations are required during the transcription of a tRNA molecule in order to limit the number of possible conformers that can occur before further development of the molecule takes place. This theory of the function for methyl groups is discussed in the light of the properties found for hypomethylated tRNAs.
Determination of hydrogen sulfide in fermentation broths containing SO 2 .	A procedure for the determination of hydrogen sulfide in fermentation broths containing up to 100 mug of SO(2) per ml is described. The method involves the sparging of H(2)S from the broth into a cadmium hydroxide absorption solution, the formation of methylene blue from the absorbed sulfide, and the measuring of this color spectrophotometrically. The use of cadmium hydroxide instead of zinc acetate, the common absorbent, substantially reduced the interference of SO(2) with the analysis.
Fermentation of D-xylose, xylitol, and D-xylulose by yeasts.	Fifteen yeasts which can assimilate D-xylose were examined for the ability to convert this pentose to ethanol. In six of the seven genera investigated the conversion was enhanced when air had access to the medium. Therefore, the ability to convert D-xylose to ethanol under these conditions is probably common among yeasts. Growth under the same conditions on xylitol, a putative catabolite of D-xylose, led to only traces of ethanol. The effects of growth on another putative catabolite, D-xylose, were complex, but some of the strains which were among the better producers of ethanol from D-xylose produced less from D-xylulose.
Aminoacyl-tRNAs from Physarum polycephalum: patterns of codon recognition.	Isoacceptors of Physarum polycephalum Ala-, Arg-, Glu-, Gln-, Gly-, Ile-, Leu-, Lys-, Ser-, Thr-, and Val-tRNAs were resolved by reverse-phase chromatography and isolated, and their codon recognition properties were determined in a ribosomal binding assay. Codon assignments were made to most isoacceptors, and they are summarized along with those determined in other studies from Escherichia coli, yeasts, wheat germ, hymenoptera, Xenopus, and mammals. The patterns of codon recognition by isoacceptors from P. polycephalum are more similar to those of animals than to those of plants or lower fungi.
Control and regulation of metabolic fluxes in microbes by substrates and enzymes.	The control of enzymes and substrates on the flux through microbial metabolic pathways can be quantified in terms of flux control coefficients. In pathways involving group transfer, the summation theorem for flux control by the enzymes has to be modified: the sum of control by all enzymes is between 1 and 2. The phosphoenolpyruvate:glucose phosphotransferase system is such a pathway. Experimental determination of the control by the enzymes in this pathway is under way. The control of the enzymes on the glycolytic flux in yeast is low, with the possible exception of the uptake step. In Klebsiella pneumoniae potassium and ammonium ions can simultaneously be 'limiting', (i.e. have significant control on growth) at pH6, but not at pH8. This may be due to the fact that at pH8 the high-affinity potassium uptake system is absent.
Yeast--100 years of contribution to biochemistry.	For centuries mankind has benefited from yeast for its survival as well as for joy and even solace in moments of pain. Today the yeast cell is considered a universal model yielding answers to important and intriguing questions about cell division, differentiation, transduction of signals and cell disorders. Classical and molecular genetic methods have been successfully applied to understand the association of genes with proteins and functions-a knowledge which has also led to the development of new biotechnologies.
Regulation and properties of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1, 2, and 3.	The extracellular signal-regulated kinases ERK1 and ERK2 are 43- and 41-kd enzymes activated by many extracellular cues. They lie within a protein kinase cascade that is used to achieve many cellular responses. In addition to the wide variety of regulatory contexts in which they are activated, they phosphorylate important regulatory proteins, including receptors, transcription factors, cytoskeletal proteins, and other protein kinases. Thus, the stimulation of this kinase cascade is thought to have a pleiotropic action. ERK1 and ERK2 are controlled by phosphorylation on threonine and tyrosine. To understand the regulatory mechanisms, wild-type and mutant ERKs were expressed in bacteria and phosphorylated with MEK, the enzyme that is upstream of ERKs. Wild-type proteins could be activated 500- to 1,000-fold in vitro by MEK. ERK3, an enzyme of 62 kd and only 50% identical to ERK1 and ERK2 in the catalytic core, was also phosphorylated by MEK in vitro. This suggests that all three of these enzymes are targets of common signaling pathways.
Production of galacto-oligosaccharide from lactose by Sterigmatomyces elviae CBS8119.	Our stock cultures were screened for microorganisms that can produce galacto-oligosaccharide (Gal-OS) from lactose. Of the 574 strains of bacteria and yeasts tested, Sterigmatomyces elviae CBS8119, Rhodotorula minuta IFO879, and Sirobasidium magnum CBS6803 were found to be efficient producers of Gal-OS from lactose and S. elviae CBS8119 was selected as a representative, high-level producing strain. With toluene-treated resting S. elviae CBS8119 cells, 135 mg of Gal-OS per ml was produced from 360-mg/ml lactose. During this reaction, the by-product glucose was found to inhibit Gal-OS production. Therefore, in order to remove the glucose from the reaction mixture, a culture method in which cell growth followed the enzymatic reaction was devised, which increased the yield of Gal-OS considerably because of the consumption of glucose for cell growth. Under such conditions, 232 mg of Gal-OS per ml was produced from 360-mg/ml lactose after incubation at 30 degrees for 60 h. The structure of the major product was identified as O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1-->4)-O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1-->4)-D- glucopyranose (4'-galactosyl-lactose) by 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
hnRNP A1 selectively interacts through its Gly-rich domain with different RNA-binding proteins.	Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) are abundant nuclear polypeptides, most likely involved in different steps of pre-mRNA processing. Protein A1 (34 kDa), a prominent member of the hnRNP family, seems to act by modulating the RNA secondary structure and by antagonizing some splicing factors (SR proteins) in splice-site selection and exon skipping/inclusion. A role of A1 in the nucleo-cytoplasmic transport of RNA has also been proposed. These activities might depend not only on the RNA-binding properties of the protein but also on specific protein-protein interactions. Here we report that A1 can indeed selectively interact, in vitro, both with itself and with other hnRNP basic "core" proteins. Such selective binding is mediated exclusively by the Gly-rich C-terminal domain, where a novel protein-binding motif constituted by hydrophobic repeats can be envisaged. The same domain is necessary and sufficient to promote specific interaction in vivo, as assayed by the yeast two-hybrid assay. Moreover, an in vitro interaction with some SR proteins was also observed. These observations suggest that diverse and specific protein-protein interactions might contribute to the different functions of the hnRNP A1 protein in mRNA maturation.
The single-batch bioconversion of wheat straw to ethanol employing the fungus Trichoderma viride and the yeast Pachysolen tannophylus.	We have developed and optimized a single-batch process of the production of ethanol from wheat straw employing the fungus Trichoderma viride and the yeast Pachysolen tannophylus. T. viride and Aspergillus niger were examined for their ability to produce fermentable sugars from cellulosic waste materials, e.g. different kinds of straw and wood waste. T. viride most efficiently saccharified delignified wheat straw within 3 days at 25-30 degrees C with a yield of reducing sugars of 27 g from 50 g delignified wheat straw. The resulting wheat straw hydrolysates contained xylose and glucose in a 1:1.6 molar ratio. After heat inactivation of fungal activities the sugars were converted to ethanol by the oxygen-tolerant yeast P. tannophylus in the same batch. Under the optimized conditions developed (all weights are per liter) 70 g natural untreated wheat straw (100%) yielded 50 g delignified straw (71.4%), which was saccharified to 27 g reducing sugars (38.6%). Fermentation of the sugars yielded 11.8 g ethanol (16.9%) and followed the molar equation: 1 xylose + 1.6 glucose --> 5.3 ethanol + 5.6 CO2.
Centrin is a conserved protein that forms diverse associations with centrioles and MTOCs in Naegleria and other organisms.	Centrin, a approximately or equal to 20 kDa calcium-binding protein also known as caltractin, is a component of centrosome-associated algal flagellar roots capable of calcium-mediated contraction, and is also found in the centrosomes of vertebrate cells. Our analysis of a centrin gene from a protist, the amoeboflagellate Naegleria gruberi, reveals conserved features that distinguish centrins from calmodulin. Antibodies to bacterially expressed Naegleria centrin, which also recognize yeast Cdc31p, were employed to localize centrin immunoreactivity in selected organisms possessing specialized microtubule-organizing centers (MTOCs) or accessory structures. There is a striking morphological diversity of such structures. In the simplest associations, as found in Naegleria flagellates and vertebrates tracheal epithelium, centrin is intimately associated with the cylinder of the basal bodies. In cells with unfocused mitotic spindles, Naegleria amoebae and onion root tips, no localization of centrin was detected. In Dictyostelium discoideum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which lack centrioles, centrin immunoreactivity was observed as punctate cytoplasmic bodies but not associated with spindle pole MTOCs. In Paramecium multimicronucleatum, centrin immunoreactivity is localized to the infraciliary lattice, previously shown to exhibit calcium-mediated contraction. In Vorticella microstoma, known for the calcium-induced rapid contraction of its stalk, centrin immunoreactivity is localized to the contractile spasmoneme and myonemes. Similar antigens from Paramecium and Vorticella are detected by anti-centrin and anti-spasmin. The pattern of localization of centrin immunoreactivity supports the conjecture that a contractile system involving centrin, initially associated with centriolar structures, was recruited during evolution to build specialized organelles in different organisms and cell types.
Separable effects of human Kvbeta1.2 N- and C-termini on inactivation and expression of human Kv1.4.	1. The Kvbeta subunits of voltage-gated K+ channels alter the functional expression and gating of non- or slowly inactivating Kvalpha1 subunits via two separate domains. To determine how Kvbeta subunits modulate a rapidly inactivating Kvalpha1 subunit, we did two-microelectrode voltage clamp experiments on human Kv1.4 voltage-gated K+ channels expressed heterologously in Xenopus oocytes. In addition we tested a slowly inactivating mutant of Kv1.4 lacking amino acids 2-146 of the N-terminal alpha-ball domain (Kv1. 4DeltaN2-146). Kv1.4 or Kv1.4DeltaN2-146 were co-expressed with either rat Kvbeta2 or human Kvbeta1.2. To separate domain effects, we also used a mutant of Kvbeta1.2 lacking the unique 79 amino acid N-terminal beta-ball domain (Kvbeta1-C). 2. For the mutant Kv1.4DeltaN2-146 we found that Kvbeta1-C or Kvbeta2 increased current amplitude without altering activation or inactivation. By contrast Kvbeta1.2 produced rapid inactivation and slowed deactivation due to block produced by the beta-ball. The beta-ball also increased the rate of C-type inactivation in 5 mM, but not 50 mM, external K+ consistent with an effect of blockade on K+ efflux. 3. For Kv1.4, Kvbeta1-C produced a voltage-independent increase in the rate of inactivation and shifted the inactivation curve to more hyperpolarized potentials, but had no effect on deactivation. Kvbeta1-C, Kvbeta2 and Kvbeta1.2 slowed recovery from inactivation similarly, thereby excluding involvement of the beta-ball. Kvbeta1.2 produced an additional more rapid, voltage-dependent component of inactivation, significantly reduced peak outward current and shifted steady-state inactivation towards hyperpolarized potentials. 4. Yeast two-hybrid studies showed that alpha-beta interaction was restricted to the N-terminus of Kv1.4 and the C-terminus of Kvbeta1. 2 or Kvbeta2. Direct interaction with the alpha-ball did not occur. Our interpretation is that Kvbeta1-C and Kvbeta2 enhanced N-type inactivation produced by the Kv1.4 alpha-ball allosterically. 5. We propose that Kvbeta1.2 has three effects on Kv1.4, the first two of which it shares with Kvbeta2. First, Kvbeta1-C and Kvbeta2 have a current-enhancing effect. Second, Kvbeta1-C and Kvbeta2 increase block by the alpha-ball allosterically. Third, the beta-ball of Kbeta1.2 directly blocks both Kv1.4 and Kv1.4DeltaN2-146. When both alpha- and beta-balls are present, competition for their respective binding sites slows the block produced by either ball.
Structural organization of MAP-kinase signaling modules by scaffold proteins in yeast and mammals.	MAP-kinase signaling pathways are activated by multiple extracellular stimuli. The specificity of activation and function of MAP-kinase signaling modules is determined, in part, by scaffold proteins that create multienzyme complexes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two MAP-kinase-scaffold proteins have been identified. Recent studies of mammalian cells have also led to the identification of putative scaffold proteins. These scaffold proteins appear to facilitate MAP-kinase activation, in response to specific physiological stimuli, and to insulate the bound MAP-kinase module against activation by irrelevant stimuli. Scaffold proteins are therefore critical components of MAP-kinase modules and ensure signaling specificity.
