Neuritis of the optic nerve after vaccinations against hepatitis A, hepatitis B and yellow fever]	Vaccinations are preventive measures against serious infections. In relation to the number of vaccinations per year, the incidence of severe complications is extremely low.
Yellow Fever]	Yellow fever is an infectious and non-contagious disease caused by an arbovirus, the yellow fever virus. The agent is maintained in jungle cycles among primates as vertebrate hosts and mosquitoes, especially Aedes in Africa, and Haemagogus and Sabethes in America. Approximately 90% of the infections are mild or asymptomatic, while 10% course to a severe clinical picture with 50% case-fatality rate. Yellow fever is largely distributed in Africa where urban epidemics are still reported. In South America, between 1970-2001, 4,543 cases were reported, mostly from Peru (51.5%), Bolivia (20.1%) and Brazil (18.7%). The disease is diagnosed by serology (detection of IgM), virus isolation, immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR. Yellow fever is a zoonosis and cannot be eradicated, but it is preventable in man by using the 17D vaccine. A single dose is enough to protect an individual for at least 10 years, after which revaccination is recommended. In this paper, the main concepts about yellow fever as well as the fatal adverse effects of the vaccine are updated.
Randomized, double-blind, phase III, pivotal field trial of the comparative immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of two yellow fever 17D vaccines (Arilvax and YF-VAX) in healthy infants and children in Peru.	We conducted a randomized, double-blind, phase III yellow fever (YF) vaccine trial among 1,107 healthy children in Sullana in northern Peru. The safety and efficacy (by measurement of geometric mean neutralizing antibody titer responses) were determined for two YF vaccines, ARILVAX (n = 738) and YF-VAX(R) (n = 369). Serocon-version rates were higher (94.9%) in ARILVAX than in YF-VAX (90.6%) recipients. The two-sided 95% confidence interval (YF-VAX-ARILVAX) was (-12.8% to -2.5%), indicating that the higher seroconversion rate for Arilvax was significant. Post-vaccination (30-day) mean log(10) neutralization indices were found to be similar for both products: 1.32 for ARILVAX and 1.26 for YF-VAX (P = 0.1404, by analysis of variance). A similar number of subjects in each group reported at least one adverse event (AE); 441 (59.8%) for ARILVAX versus 211 (59.9%) for YF-VAX. Most (591; 96.7%) of these were of a mild nature and resolved without treatment. There were no treatment-related serious AEs. This is the first randomized, double-blind comparison of two YF vaccines in a pediatric population; both vaccines were shown to be highly immunogenic and well-tolerated.
Restricted replication and lysosomal trafficking of yellow fever 17D vaccine virus in human dendritic cells.	The yellow fever virus attenuated 17D vaccine strain is a safe and effective vaccine and a valuable model system for evaluating immune responses against attenuated viral variants. This study compared the in vitro interactions of the commercially available yellow fever vaccine (YF-VAX), Dengue virus and the live-attenuated dengue vaccine PDK50 with dendritic cells (DCs), the main antigen-presenting cells at the initiation of immune responses. Similar to PDK50, infection with YF-VAX generated activated DCs; however, for YF-VAX, activation occurred with limited intracellular virus replication. The majority of internalized virus co-localized with endolysosomal markers within 90 min, suggesting that YF-VAX is processed rapidly in DCs. These results indicate that restricted virus replication and lysosomal compartmentalization may be important contributing factors to the success of the YF-VAX vaccine.
Activation/modulation of adaptive immunity emerges simultaneously after 17DD yellow fever first-time vaccination: is this the key to prevent severe adverse reactions following immunization?	Over past decades the 17DD yellow fever vaccine has proved to be effective in controlling yellow fever and promises to be a vaccine vector for other diseases, but the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which it elicits such broad-based immunity are still unclear. In this study we describe a detailed phenotypic investigation of major and minor peripheral blood lymphocyte subpopulations aimed at characterizing the kinetics of the adaptive immune response following primary 17DD vaccination. Our major finding is a decreased frequency of circulating CD19+ cells at day 7 followed by emerging activation/modulation phenotypic features (CD19+interleukin(IL)10R+/CD19+CD32+) at day 15. Increased frequency of CD4+human leucocyte antigen D-related(HLA-DR+) at day 7 and CD8+HLA-DR+ at day 30 suggest distinct kinetics of T cell activation, with CD4+ T cells being activated early and CD8+ T cells representing a later event following 17DD vaccination. Up-regulation of modulatory features on CD4+ and CD8+ cells at day 15 seems to be the key event leading to lower frequency of CD38+ T cells at day 30. Taken together, our findings demonstrate the co-existence of phenotypic features associated with activation events and modulatory pathways. Positive correlations between CD4+HLA-DR+ cells and CD4+CD25high regulatory T cells and the association between the type 0 chemokine receptor CCR2 and the activation status of CD4+ and CD8+ cells further support this hypothesis. We hypothesize that this controlled microenviroment seems to be the key to prevent the development of serious adverse events, and even deaths, associated with the 17DD vaccine reported in the literature.
17D yellow fever vaccines: new insights. A report of a workshop held during the World Congress on medicine and health in the tropics, Marseille, France, Monday 12 September 2005.	Yellow fever (YF) is a major health problem in endemic regions of Africa and South America. It also poses a serious health risk to travellers to areas with endemic disease. Currently, there is no effective drug treatment for YF; however, 17D YF vaccines have demonstrated high rates of effectiveness and good safety profiles. This workshop was organized to review key data and issues about YF disease and currently available 17D YF vaccines. Starting with an overview of the current disease epidemiology in Africa and South America and a review of the safety data of 17D YF vaccines, data were then presented demonstrating the genetic stability of multiple production lots of a 17D YF vaccine, the immunological responses of healthy subjects post-vaccination and the long-term immunogenicity of 17D YF vaccines. Finally, the findings of the molecular characterization of 17D YF virus sub-strains recovered from rare, fatal cases of post-vaccination serious adverse events were presented. There was unanimous agreement that current 17D YF vaccines have a highly favourable benefit-risk profile when used in persons at risk of exposure to the YF virus, and that appropriate use of 17D YF vaccines will minimize the occurrence of serious adverse events post-vaccination.
Yellow fever vaccine: past, present and future.	Yellow fever is a re-emerging infectious disease, as vector control and routine immunisation have dwindled in endemic areas in the last few decades. There is a constant threat of outbreaks in the large susceptible non-immune population of the megacities in tropical countries with an ongoing virus life cycle in the rainforests. For this population and for travellers to endemic areas, vaccination is the only effective protective measure against the disease and the spread of the virus.
Longitudinal myelitis associated with yellow fever vaccination.	Severe adverse reaction to yellow fever (YF) vaccine includes the yellow fever vaccine-associated neurotropic disease. This terminology includes postvaccinal encephalitis, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. The objective of this communication is to report a patient who received a YF vaccine in Argentina and subsequently developed longitudinal myelitis with a symptom that had previously gone unreported in the literature. A 56-year-old man began with progressive paraparesia, urinary retention, and constipation 48 h previous to admission. The patient received YF vaccine 45 days prior to the onset of the symptoms. There was no history of other immunization or relevant condition. MR of the spine showed longitudinal intramedullary hyperintense signal (D5-12) without gadolinium enhancement. A high concentration of YFV-specific IgM vaccine antibody was found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Serological tests for other flavivirus were negative. A diagnosis of longitudinal myelitis without encephalitis associated with YF vaccine was performed and symptoms improved 5 days later. This is the first report dealing with longitudinal myelitis as a serious adverse event associated with YF vaccination in which confirmation of the presence of antibodies in CSF was found. To date, it is also the first report with serological confirmation in Argentina and in South America. We consider that the present investigation will raise awareness in the region in the reporting of adverse events related to YF vaccine and improve our knowledge of adverse reactions to the vaccine.
Transmission of yellow fever vaccine virus through breast-feeding - Brazil, 2009.	In April, 2009, the state health department of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, was notified by the Cachoeira do Sul municipal health department of a case of meningoencephalitis requiring hospitalization in an infant whose mother recently had received yellow fever vaccine during a postpartum visit. The Field Epidemiology Training Program of the Secretariat of Surveillance in Health of the Brazilian Ministry of Health assisted state and municipal health departments with an investigation. This report summarizes the results of that investigation, which determined that the infant acquired yellow fever vaccine virus through breast-feeding. The mother reported 2 days of headache, malaise, and low fever occurring 5 days after receipt of yellow fever vaccine. The infant, who was exclusively breast-fed, was hospitalized at age 23 days with seizures requiring continuous infusion of intravenous anticonvulsants. The infant received antimicrobial and antiviral treatment for meningoencephalitis. The presence of 17DD yellow fever virus was detected by reverse transcription--polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the infant's cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); yellow fever--specific immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies also were present in serum and CSF. The infant recovered completely, was discharged after 24 days of hospitalization, and has had normal neurodevelopment and growth through age 6 months. The findings in this report provide documentation that yellow fever vaccine virus can be transmitted via breast-feeding. Administration of yellow fever vaccine to breast-feeding women should be avoided except in situations where exposure to yellow fever viruses cannot be avoided or postponed.
