Peritoneal schistosomiasis: an unusual laparoscopic finding.	Laparoscopic surgery is now a common procedure for the cure of appendicitis. Unexpected other laparoscopic findings can be a diagnostic challenge. The authors present a case in which, in addition to typical appendicitis, multiple whitish nodules were found diffusely on the peritoneal surfaces suggesting a differential diagnosis including miliary tuberculosis and carcinoma metastases. The final diagnosis of schistosomiasis, made by histology and serology, had not been suspected. This uncommon and rare presentation deserves to be reported, especially to physicians of nonendemic areas, in an era in which people travel extensively.
Intestinal parasitic infections in schoolchildren of Abha (Asir), Saudi Arabia.	Stool specimens from 1282 children between the age of 5 and 13 years attending 10 primary schools for boys in the city of Abha, southwestern Saudi Arabia, were examined for the presence of intestinal parasites. Of these, 313, (24.4%) were found infected with one or more species of 11 intestinal protozoa and helminths. The most common pathogenic protozoa being Giardia lamblia (10.9%) followed by Entamoeba histolytica (4.1%). The nonpathogenic protozoan, Entamoeba coli had the highest prevalence rate (11.3%) in the children's stools. Hymenolepis nana was the commonest intestinal helminth (3.0%). Other intestinal helminths, including Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura. Schistosoma mansoni, Dicrocoelium dendriticum were detected to a lesser extent. The distribution of the common intestinal infections among the children surveyed were also analysed according to age, nationality and multiplicity of infection. Prevalence of E. histolytica was found to increase with age whereas Giardia infections were less common among older children. This pair of parasite species were strongly associated. Yemeni children had consistently the highest prevalence of infection with protozoa and helminths, followed by Saudi and non-Saudi children.
Yemeni families and child lead screening in Detroit.	This project was an exploratory effort to screen and treat immigrant Yemeni children who were at high risk for lead poisoning. The Detroit metropolitan area is home to the largest number of Arabic immigrants in the United States. In addition, Detroit has the largest rate of childhood lead poisoning in the state of Michigan. No published studies were found that explored the prevalence of lead poisoning among Yemeni children in Michigan. Immigrant children from countries where knowledge of lead poisoning is limited may be particularly vulnerable because of difficulties in language and accessing health care. Children's Hospital of Michigan CATCH School Mobile Health Center conducted this health-screening project. This article reports on the gender and health issues encountered during the community outreach lead testing effort within a Yemeni neighborhood in Detroit.
Estimating the number of women with female genital mutilation in Belgium.	To estimate the number of women with female genital mutilation (FGM) living in Belgium, the number of girls at risk, and the target population of medical and social services (MSSs) concerned.
Hydatid cysts of the lung.	Cystic hydatid disease is a zoonosis caused by infection with the larval cysts of Echinococcus granulosus. Cysts commonly develop in the liver and lungs. Diagnosis in non-endemic regions is often delayed due to a failure to consider hydatidosis. This results from a non-specific presentation and a failure to record an accurate geographical history. The diagnosis requires integrating an appropriate index of suspicion with correct interpretation of imaging and serological tests. In our case, a 44-year-old woman of Yemeni origin presented to a UK hospital with chest pain, pruritus and weight loss. Following detection of pulmonary nodules, a CT-guided biopsy was carried out to exclude malignancy. Iatrogenic cyst rupture precipitated an acute eosinophilic pleurisy. Cystic hydatid disease was subsequently diagnosed following strongly positive hydatid serological tests. This case illustrates the importance of considering diagnoses appropriate to an individual's geographical history particularly in the context of rising immigration and foreign travel.
Tumoral calcinosis: case reports from Saudi Arabia with a review of the literature.	Tumoral calcinosis is a rare disease mainly reported among blacks, especially from the tropical and sub-tropical regions of Africa. Hitherto, no reports of this disease entity have been reported from North Africa and the Arab Peninsula. This paper is therefore the first documentation of tumoral calcinosis in nine patients from the Arabian Peninsula; seven of whom are Saudis and two Yemenis. Peculiar osseous and joint changes co-existed in one of the cases. Moreover, there was a high incidence in the feet, in 75% of cases. One of the lesions was quite extensive. Reason for these changes are suggested.
Foot abscess due to Salmonella typhi: a case report.	A case of foot abscess due to Salmonella typhi is reported in a 37-year-old Yemeni man. The abscess was surgically drained and the wound healed without antibiotic therapy.
Diabetes and accompanying obesity, hypertension and ECG abnormalities in Yemenite Jews 40 years after immigration to Israel.	A repeat survey in 1988-1989 on the prevalence of diabetes among Yemenites aged 30 years and over was 3.6% as compared to 2.9% in 1977-78 and 0.25% in 1958-59 soon after their immigration to Israel. In age and gender-matched ethnic Jewish groups at the time it was 5/9% in Ashkenazis (originating in Europe and North America) and 2.5% in Sephardis (originating from Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries). In Yemenites obesity was associated with a marked increase in the prevalence of diabetes the same as in the other ethnic groups. The prevalence of hypertension and ischemic heart disease ECG changes were higher in diabetic Yemenites than in non-diabetic ones, the same as in the other ethnic groups. There was no difference between the incidence of ischemic heart disease ECG changes among diabetics and subjects with IGT. These facts suggest that the metabolic changes that accompany the development of diabetes lead to the same pathological changes irrespective of the ethnic group.
