Midgut epithelium formation in Thermobia domestica (Packard) (Insecta, Zygentoma).	The origin of midgut epithelium may begin either from yolk cells (energids), tips of stomo- and proctodaeum (ectoderm), inner layer (endoderm) or from both kinds of the above mentioned cells. The origin of the midgut epithelium in wingless insects (Apterygota) has still not been determined. In Thermobia domestica the formation of midgut is much delayed, and it completes in the post-embryonic stage, while the stomo- and the proctodaeum are well-developed in the embryonic period. The energids, which remain inside the yolk, start to migrate to its periphery, where they arrange singly close to cell membrane. The yolk mass with the energids at the 14th day of embryogenesis are referred to as the primary midgut. During the first instar larval stage more and more energids migrate to the yolk periphery and the cell membrane starts to form numerous foldings surrounding the groups of energids, which in turn lead to formation of isolated regenerative cell groups. Eventually the cell membrane invaginations reach the center of the yolk mass. Large cells of the primary epithelium, surrounding the newly formed midgut lumen are formed. The cells of the primary epithelium are filled with yolk and are equipped with microvilli pointing to the midgut lumen. As the yolk is being digested, the process of the primary epithelium cells degeneration begins. The cells are getting shorter and start to degenerate. The definitive midgut epithelium is formed from proliferating regenerative cells. It consists of regularly spaced regenerative cell groups as well as the epithelial cells. The ultrastructure of both these cell groups has been described.
Uterine epithelial changes during placentation in the viviparous skink Eulamprus tympanum.	We used scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to describe the complete ontogeny of simple placentation and the development of both the yolk sac placentae and chorioallantoic placentae from nonreproductive through postparturition phases in the maternal uterine epithelium of the Australian skink, Eulamprus tympanum. We chose E. tympanum, a species with a simple, noninvasive placenta, and which we know, has little net nutrient uptake during gestation to develop hypotheses about placental function and to identify any difference between the oviparous and viviparous conditions. Placental differentiation into the chorioallantoic placenta and yolk sac placenta occurs from embryonic Stage 29; both placentae are simple structures without specialized features for materno/fetal connection. The uterine epithelial cells are not squamous as previously described by Claire Weekes, but are columnar, becoming increasingly attenuated because of the pressure of the impinging underlying capillaries as gestation progresses. When the females are nonreproductive, the luminal uterine surface is flat and the microvillous cells that contain electron-dense vesicles partly obscure the ciliated cells. As vitellogenesis progresses, the microvillous cells are less hypertrophied than in nonreproductive females. After ovulation and fertilization, there is no regional differentiation of the uterine epithelium around the circumference of the egg. The first differentiation, associated with the chorioallantoic placentae and yolk sac placentae, occurs at embryonic Stage 29 and continues through to Stage 39. As gestation proceeds, the uterine chorioallantoic placenta forms ridges, the microvillous cells become less hypertrophied, ciliated cells are less abundant, the underlying blood vessels increase in size, and the gland openings at the uterine surface are more apparent. In contrast, the yolk sac placenta has no particular folding with cells having a random orientation and where the microvillous cells remain hypertrophied throughout gestation. However, the ciliated cells become less abundant as gestation proceeds, as also seen in the chorioallantoic placenta. Secretory vesicles are visible in the uterine lumen. All placental differentiation and cell detail is lost at Stage 40, and the uterine structure has returned to the nonreproductive condition within 2 weeks. Circulating progesterone concentrations begin to rise during late vitellogenesis, peak at embryonic Stages 28-30, and decline after Stage 35 in the later stages of gestation. The coincidence between the time of oviposition and placental differentiation demonstrates a similarity during gestation in the uterus between oviparous and simple placental viviparous squamates.
Haemopoiesis in the human yolk sac.	Haemopoiesis in human yolk sacs was examined using tissues obtained from a total of 27 cases in various stages of development from the fourth to eleventh week of pregnancy. In the early stages of development, the yolk sac was observed to be connected to the midgut by the vitelline duct, which became slender with later growth of the embryo. In the early stages of pregnancy, endodermal tissues were found to be a predominant component, whereas in the later stages, the mesenchymal tissues increased. The most immature blood cells and their mitotic figures were observed in the endodermal tissue. Haemopoiesis was found in endodermal tissue before mesenchymal tissue had developed. Electron microscopy revealed that maturation of the blood cells proceeded as the cells were formed in mesenchymal tissue and in blood vessels.
In vitro SCE discrepancy between embryonic and extraembryonic mouse tissues.	In vitro sister-chromatid exchange (SCE) background levels and cytokinetics were compared in embryonic (whole embryo cell suspensions) and extraembryonic (yolk sac and amnion, placenta) cells of inbred and outbred strains at various gestational stages (days 12-17). Results indicate a tissue origin (embryonal, extraembryonal) related variation in the formation of baseline SCE frequencies and cytokinetics. The significant higher SCE levels in extraembryonic tissues (maximum increase of 2 X the background values of the embryo cells) were independent of mouse strain and gestational stage. An average of 4-5 SCEs/cell in embryo cells is contrasted by 7-9 SCEs/cell in extraembryo cells. Mitotic index was generally lower and average generation time longer (by 2-3 h) in extraembryonic tissue cells. No significant differences in SCE frequencies and no changes in cytokinetics were detected at the BrdU concentrations used (1.2-4.8 micrograms/ml). The reason for the inter-tissue differences in baseline SCE is still not clear.
Cytologic evidence for preferential inactivation of the paternally derived X chromosome in XX mouse blastocysts.	A total of 941 mouse blastocysts obtained from two types of crosses in which one of parents carried Cattanach's X/autosome translocation was studied cytogenetically by quinacrine mustard fluorescence. The rearranged X (Xt) and the normal X (Xh) were distinguished by size. Karyotype analysis was successful in 721 embryos, of which 205 were heterozygous for Cattanach's translocation. A single heterochromatic and brightly fluorescent X chromosome was identified in 154 metaphase spreads from 89 blastocysts consisting of 32--96 cells. The paternally derived X chromosome (Xp) was heterochromatic in 87% and 88% of the informative cells from the crosses XnXn x XtY and XtXn x XnY, respectively. This preferential choice of Xp at the blastocyst stage might have an important bearing upon the preponderance of cells with an inactive Xp in the chorion and yolk-sac splanchnopleure.
