Neuraminidase inhibitors for preventing and treating influenza in healthy adults.	Neuraminidase inhibitors (NI) are recommended for use against influenza and its complications in inter-pandemic years and during pandemics.
Assessment of the effects of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetic profile of laninamivir, a novel neuraminidase inhibitor, after a single inhaled dose of its Prodrug, CS-8958.	This open-label, single-dose study assessed the safety and pharmacokinetics of laninamivir, a new long-acting neuraminidase inhibitor, after an inhaled 20-mg dose of its prodrug, CS-8958, to a total of 20 subjects with normal, mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. CS-8958 and laninamivir concentrations were measured in plasma and urine by validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry methods. The area under the concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUC(0-inf)), maximum concentration (C(max)), and time to C(max) of CS-8958 did not change with the degree of renal impairment, whereas the half-life (t(1/2)) of CS-8958 increased with increasing renal insufficiency. The AUC(0-inf) and C(max) of laninamivir tended to increase along with the decrease of creatinine clearance. The AUC(0-inf) of laninamivir compared with normal subjects increased 1.10-, 2.03-, and 4.92-fold in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, without changing t(1/2) among the subjects. Renal clearance of both CS-8958 and laninamivir was well correlated with creatinine clearance. These data indicate that the rate-limiting step for the elimination of laninamivir would not be the renal excretion rate but rather the drug release rate to plasma from the retained tissues. CS-8958 was well tolerated by all the subjects, although increasing renal dysfunction leads to increasing systemic exposure to laninamivir, particularly in severe renal insufficiency.
Laninamivir octanoate for post-exposure prophylaxis of influenza in household contacts: a randomized double blind placebo controlled trial.	Laninamivir octanoate, a long-acting neuraminidase inhibitor, is an effective treatment for influenza. However, its effectiveness for the prevention of influenza has not yet been demonstrated. We conducted a double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled trial to determine whether laninamivir octanoate was superior to a placebo for post-exposure prophylaxis of influenza in household contacts. Eligible participants, who were household members who did not have influenza and were in contact with an influenza-infected index patient, were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to one of three groups: 20 mg of laninamivir octanoate once daily for 2 days (LO-2), 20 mg of laninamivir octanoate once daily for 3 days (LO-3), or a placebo. The primary endpoint was the proportion of participants who developed clinical influenza during a 10-day period. A total of 1711 participants were enrolled, and 1451 participants were included in the primary analysis. The proportion of participants with clinical influenza was 3.9 % (19/487) in the LO-2 group, 3.7 % (18/486) in the LO-3 group, and 16.9 % (81/478) in the placebo group (P < 0.001 for each of the laninamivir octanoate group). The relative risk reductions, compared with the placebo group, were 77.0 % [95 % confidence interval (CI) 62.7-85.8] and 78.1 % (95 % CI 64.1-86.7 %) for the LO-2 and LO-3 groups, respectively. The incidences of adverse events in the laninamivir octanoate groups were similar to that in the placebo group. The inhalation of 20 mg of laninamivir octanoate once daily for 2 or 3 days was well tolerated and effectively prevented the development of influenza in household contacts. 
