Fishing for new antimicrobials.	The discovery of antibiotics and other antimicrobial agents in the 1930s is arguably the most significant therapeutic advance in medical history. Penicillin and the sulfa drugs touched off the search for and discovery of countless derivative compounds and several new antibiotic classes. However, the pace of discovery has slowed down, and there is growing appreciation that much of the low-lying fruit accessible to traditional methods of antimicrobial discovery has been harvested. Combating emerging drug-resistant strains of infectious agents may require the adoption of fresh approaches to drug target validation, small-molecule discovery and safety assessment. The recent development of several infectious disease models in zebrafish raises the possibility of a new paradigm in antimicrobial discovery.
In vivo imaging and genetic analysis link bacterial motility and symbiosis in the zebrafish gut.	Complex microbial communities reside within the intestines of humans and other vertebrates. Remarkably little is known about how these microbial consortia are established in various locations within the gut, how members of these consortia behave within their dynamic ecosystems, or what microbial factors mediate mutually beneficial host-microbial interactions. Using a gnotobiotic zebrafish-Pseudomonas aeruginosa model, we show that the transparency of this vertebrate species, coupled with methods for raising these animals under germ-free conditions can be used to monitor microbial movement and localization within the intestine in vivo and in real time. Germ-free zebrafish colonized with isogenic P. aeruginosa strains containing deletions of genes related to motility and pathogenesis revealed that loss of flagellar function results in attenuation of evolutionarily conserved host innate immune responses but not conserved nutrient responses. These results demonstrate the utility of gnotobiotic zebrafish in defining the behavior and localization of bacteria within the living vertebrate gut, identifying bacterial genes that affect these processes, and assessing the impact of these genes on host-microbial interactions.
Characterization of immune-matched hematopoietic transplantation in zebrafish.	Evaluating hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function in vivo requires a long-term transplantation assay. Although zebrafish are a powerful model for discovering the genetics of hematopoiesis, hematopoietic transplantation approaches have been underdeveloped. Here we established a long-term reconstitution assay in adult zebrafish. Primary and secondary recipients showed multilineage engraftment at 3 months after transplantation. Limiting dilution data suggest that at least 1 in 65 000 zebrafish marrow cells contain repopulating activity, consistent with mammalian HSC frequencies. We defined zebrafish haplotypes at the proposed major histocompatibility complex locus on chromosome 19 and tested functional significance through hematopoietic transplantation. Matching donors and recipients dramatically increased engraftment and percentage donor chimerism compared with unmatched fish. These data constitute the first functional test of zebrafish histocompatibility genes, enabling the development of matched hematopoietic transplantations. This lays the foundation for competitive transplantation experiments with mutant zebrafish HSCs and chemicals to test for effects on engraftment, thereby providing a model for human hematopoietic diseases and treatments not previously available.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae as a system to test the efficacy of polysaccharides as immunostimulants.	The present study was carried out to examine the use of zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a preliminary screening model for testing the effect of potential immunostimulant substances on the innate immune system. β-Glucan, a polysaccharide used widely as an immunostimulant, was used as a representative molecule and tested on zebrafish embryos and larvae. The efficacy of the molecule was evaluated by determining the differential expression of some selected genes related to the immune system by RT-qPCR. Larvae from 72 hours post fertilization were found at the optimal developmental stage for assessing the expression of the selected genes. To verify if the β-glucan entered the larvae and therefore was responsible for the effects produced, the molecule was labeled fluorescently to check its localization by using microscopy. For estimating the effects of β-glucan on gene expression, zebrafish embryos and larvae were immersed in three different concentrations of β-glucan (50, 100, and 150 μg/mL) using five different exposure times. A stronger gene induction was observed when longer times of exposure and older larvae were used. The most evident effects of β-glucan were the overexpression of the genes TNFα, MPO, TRF, and LYZ. Moreover, slight changes in MPO expression were detected using a transgenic line of zebrafish (MPO::GFP), and a temporal increase in resistance against Vibrio anguillarum was found after β-glucan immersion. The assay used in this study permits the testing potential of immunostimulants in a simple and cost-effective way.
Immune responses of zebrafish (Danio rerio) induced by bath-vaccination with a live attenuated Vibrio anguillarum vaccine candidate.	A fish vaccine candidate, live attenuated Vibrio anguillarum, which can protect fish from vibriosis, was established in our laboratory. In this study, the protective immunological mechanism of live attenuated V. anguillarum was investigated in zebrafish as a model animal. After bath-vaccinated with the live attenuated strain, zebrafish were challenged with wild pathogenic strain to test the immunoprotection of the live attenuated strain. As the results, specific antibody response of fish against V. anguillarum was found to gradually increase during 28 days post-vaccination, and remarkable protection was showed with a high relative protection survival (RPS) of about 90%. Moreover, the vaccination changed the expressions of several immune-related genes in the spleens and livers of zebrafish. Among them, the expressions of pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-1 and IL-8 were tenderly up-regulated with about 3-4 fold in 1-7 days post-vaccination, while MHC II rose to a peak level of 4-fold in 7th day post-vaccination. These results gave some important messages about the mechanism of specific protection induced by live attenuated V. anguillarum and showed the availability of zebrafish model in the evaluation of the vaccine candidate.
Immunoresponsive gene 1 augments bactericidal activity of macrophage-lineage cells by regulating β-oxidation-dependent mitochondrial ROS production.	Evidence suggests the bactericidal activity of mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species (mROS) directly contributes to killing phagocytozed bacteria. Infection-responsive components that regulate this process remain incompletely understood. We describe a role for the mitochondria-localizing enzyme encoded by Immunoresponsive gene 1 (IRG1) during the utilization of fatty acids as a fuel for oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and associated mROS production. In a zebrafish infection model, infection-responsive expression of zebrafish irg1 is specific to macrophage-lineage cells and is regulated cooperatively by glucocorticoid and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. Irg1-depleted macrophage-lineage cells are impaired in their ability to utilize fatty acids as an energy substrate for OXPHOS-derived mROS production resulting in defective bactericidal activity. Additionally, the requirement for fatty acid β-oxidation during infection-responsive mROS production and bactericidal activity toward intracellular bacteria is conserved in murine macrophages. These results reveal IRG1 as a key component of the immunometabolism axis, connecting infection, cellular metabolism, and macrophage effector function.
Could a swimming creature inform us on intestinal diseases? Lessons from zebrafish.	Understanding a complex pathology such as inflammatory bowel disease, where host genetics (innate and adaptive immunity, barrier function) and environmental factors (microbes, diet, and stress) interact together to influence disease onset and severity, requires multipronged approaches to model these numerous variables. Researchers have typically relied on preclinical models of mouse and rat origin to push the boundary of knowledge further. However, incorporation of novel vertebrate models may contribute to new knowledge on specific aspects of intestinal homeostasis. An emerging literature has seen the use of zebrafish as a novel animal system to study key aspects of host-microbe interactions in the intestine. In this review, we briefly introduce components of host-microbiota interplay in the developing zebrafish intestine and summarize key lessons learned from this animal system; review important chemically induced and genetically engineered zebrafish models of intestinal immune disorders; and discuss perspectives and limitations of the zebrafish model system.
Liposome-encapsulated cinnamaldehyde enhances zebrafish (Danio rerio) immunity and survival when challenged with Vibrio vulnificus and Streptococcus agalactiae.	Cinnamaldehyde, which is extracted from cinnamon, is a natural compound with activity against bacteria and a modulatory immune function. However, the antibacterial activity and immunostimulation of cinnamaldehyde in fish has not been well investigated due to the compound's poor water solubility. Thus, liposome-encapsulated cinnamaldehyde (LEC) was used to evaluate the effects of cinnamaldehyde on in vitro antibacterial activity against aquatic pathogens and in vivo immunity and protection parameters against Vibrio vulnificus and Streptococcus agalactiae. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) as well as bactericidal agar plate assay results demonstrated the effective bacteriostatic and bactericidal potency of LEC against Aeromonas hydrophila, V. vulnificus, and S. agalactiae, as well as the antibiotic-resistant Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio alginolyticus. Bacteria challenge test results demonstrated that LEC significantly enhances the survival rate and inhibits bacterial growth in zebrafish infected with A. hydrophila, V. vulnificus, and S. agalactiae. A gene expression study using a real-time PCR showed that LEC immersion-treated zebrafish had increased endogenous interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-15, IL-21, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and interferon (INF)-γ expression in vivo. After the zebrafish were infected with V. vulnificus or S. agalactiae, the LEC immersion treatment suppressed the expression of the inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, IL-15, NF-κb, and TNF-α and induced IL-10 and C3b expression. These findings demonstrate that cinnamaldehyde exhibits antimicrobial activity against aquatic pathogens, even antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains and immune-stimulating effects to protect the host's defenses against pathogen infection in bacteria-infected zebrafish. These results suggest that LEC could be used as an antimicrobial agent and immunostimulant to protect bacteria-infected fish in aquaculture.
Essential functional modules for pathogenic and defensive mechanisms in Candida albicans infections.	The clinical and biological significance of the study of fungal pathogen Candida albicans (C. albicans) has markedly increased. However, the explicit pathogenic and invasive mechanisms of such host-pathogen interactions have not yet been fully elucidated. Therefore, the essential functional modules involved in C. albicans-zebrafish interactions were investigated in this study. Adopting a systems biology approach, the early-stage and late-stage protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks for both C. albicans and zebrafish were constructed. By comparing PPI networks at the early and late stages of the infection process, several critical functional modules were identified in both pathogenic and defensive mechanisms. Functional modules in C. albicans, like those involved in hyphal morphogenesis, ion and small molecule transport, protein secretion, and shifts in carbon utilization, were seen to play important roles in pathogen invasion and damage caused to host cells. Moreover, the functional modules in zebrafish, such as those involved in immune response, apoptosis mechanisms, ion transport, protein secretion, and hemostasis-related processes, were found to be significant as defensive mechanisms during C. albicans infection. The essential functional modules thus determined could provide insights into the molecular mechanisms of host-pathogen interactions during the infection process and thereby devise potential therapeutic strategies to treat C. albicans infection. 
