Efficacy and toxicity of zinc salts as candidate topical microbicides against vaginal herpes simplex virus type 2 infection.	Zinc salt solutions administered as topical microbicides provided significant protection against herpes simplex virus type 2 infection in a mouse vaginal challenge model. However, at the therapeutic concentration, the salt solutions caused sloughing of sheets of vaginal epithelial cells. These observations limit the utility of zinc salts as microbicides and suggest that the application of zinc solutions to mucosal surfaces has the potential to cause damage that might increase susceptibility to secondary infections at a later time.
Zinc supplements for preventing otitis media.	Otitis media (inflammation of the middle ear, usually caused by infection) affects people of all ages, but is particularly common in young children. Around 164 million people worldwide have long-term hearing loss caused by this condition, 90% of them in low-income countries. Because zinc supplements prevent pneumonia in disadvantaged children, we wondered whether they prevent otitis media.
Good response with zinc acetate monotherapy in an adolescent affected by severe Wilson disease.	We describe a 17-year-old girl with haemolytic anaemia as presentation of Wilson disease. The diagnosis was based on the findings of < 20 mg/dl ceruloplasmin serum level, Kayser-Fleischer ring and Coombs-negative haemolytic anaemia. Genetic testing revealed the presence of the H1069Q heterozygous mutation. The patient was treated with Zinc acetate monotherapy, with good response, maintened after 22 months. This case emphasizes the importance of recognizing atypical clinical presentation of Wilson disease, which must always be considered in patients with Coombs-negative haemolytic anaemia. The good clinical response to treatment with zinc acetate monotherapy in our case might lend to consider the use of zinc monotherapy as initial therapy also in symptomatic patients with Wilson disease under close clinical observation. Clinical trials are needed to provide evidence for use of zinc monotherapy as first-line therapy in symptomatic patients with Wilson disease.
Endocrine symptoms as the initial manifestation of Wilson's disease.	Wilson's disease is a rare genetic disorder of copper metabolism. The difference in copper tissue accumulation is responsible for the various clinical manifestations of this disorder. If left untreated, Wilson's disease progresses to hepatic failure, severe neurological disability, and even death. Due to the complex clinical picture of Wilson's disease, its diagnosis relies on a high index of suspicion. In our paper, we present endocrine symptoms suggesting the presence of insulinoma and hyperprolactinemia as the initial clinical manifestation of Wilson's disease in a young female. Zinc acetate treatment resulted in the disappearance of hypoglycemia, galactorrhea, and menstrual abnormalities.
The effect of zinc acetate and magnolia bark extract added to chewing gum on volatile sulfur-containing compounds in the oral cavity.	A controlled, clinical, double-blind study was conducted to assess the efficacy of a sugar-free chewing gum containing zinc acetate and magnolia bark extract (MBE) on oral volatile sulfur-containing compounds (VSC) versus a placebo sugar-free chewing gum for two hours.
