Methodology for assessing zinc bioavailability: efficacy estimates for zinc-methionine, zinc sulfate, and zinc oxide.	The bioavailability of zinc-methionine (ZnMET) was compared to that of feed-grade ZnSO4.H2O using three different diets: purified (crystalline amino acid [AA]), semipurified (soy isolate), and complex (corn-soybean [C-SBM]) diet. With the Zn-deficient purified or semipurified diet, weight gain and tibia Zn responded linearly to both ZnSO4.H2O and ZnMET supplementation. Common-intercept, multiple linear regression indicated differences in Zn bioavailability between ZnMET and ZnSO4.H2O for both diets as indicated by bone Zn. With the ZnSO4.H2O standard set at 100%, bioavailability of Zn from ZnMET was 117% (P less than .05) in the AA diet and 177% (P less than .01) in the soy isolate diet. The ZnMET was also compared to ZnSO4.H2O in a C-SBM diet containing 117 mg of Zn/kg. When high levels of Zn were added to this diet (0, 250, 500, and 750 mg/kg of supplemental Zn), consistent tissue Zn responses did not occur beyond the first increment. Addition of lower levels of supplemental Zn (0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 mg/kg) to a Zn-unsupplemented C-SBM basal diet (45 mg/kg of Zn), however, resulted in a broken-line, two-slope response in tibia Zn for both ZnMET and ZnSO4.H2O. Inflection points occurred at 60 and 54 mg of Zn/kg of diet for ZnSO4.H2O and ZnMET, respectively. The ratio of slopes (ZnMET:ZnSO4.H2O) below the inflection points was 206% (P less than .01), indicating that Zn was considerably more bioavailable in ZnMET than in ZnSO4.H2O for chicks consuming C-SBM diets. When feed-grade ZnO was compared to feed-grade ZnSO4.H2O in chicks consuming C-SBM diets, bone Zn slopes below the respective inflection points indicated that Zn was 61% bioavailable in ZnO relative to ZnSO4.H2O.
Physical sunscreens: on the comeback trail.	Awareness of ultraviolet radiation-induced skin damage creates the need for the development of broad-spectrum, safe and cosmetically acceptable sunscreens. Being relatively inert, safe, stable and non-irritating, physical sunscreens are particularly useful for patients with sensitive skin who cannot tolerate chemical sunscreens. However, they form a thick visible pigment layer on the skin. To overcome this drawback, microfine oxides have been developed which made the sunscreens virtually transparent when applied on the skin. This article reviews the rationale for the comeback of physical sunscreens by analyzing data from various sources.
Safety assessment by multiphoton fluorescence/second harmonic generation/hyper-Rayleigh scattering tomography of ZnO nanoparticles used in cosmetic products.	Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) are commonly used as UV filters in commercial sunscreen products. Their penetration into the skin is intensively discussed in the literature. In the present in vivo study, penetration of ZnO NPs (30 nm in size) into human skin was investigated by multiphoton tomography. Based on the non-linear effects of a second harmonic generation and hyper-Rayleigh scattering, the distribution of ZnO NPs in the horny layers of the epidermis, as well as the furrows, wrinkles and orifice of the hair follicles was analyzed. This method permitted distinguishing between the particulate and dissolved forms of Zn. A detection limit of 0.08 fg/μm(3) was estimated. Taking advantage of this sensitivity, it was clearly shown that ZnO NPs penetrate only into the outermost layers of stratum corneum, furrows and into the orifices of the hair follicles and do not reach the viable epidermis.
Bioavailability of zinc from inorganic and organic sources for pigs fed corn-soybean meal diets.	Two experiments were conducted with pigs 1) to determine the effect of supplemental Zn on growth performance, bone Zn, and plasma Zn in pigs fed Zn-unsupplemented, corn-soybean meal diets and 2) to assess bioavailability of Zn from inorganic and organic Zn sources. In both experiments, weanling pigs were fed a diet with no supplemental Zn for 5 wk to deplete their Zn stores. In Exp. 1, 192 pigs were fed a corn-soybean meal diet (growing diet, 32 mg/kg of Zn; finishing diet, 27 mg/kg of Zn) supplemented with feed-grade ZnSO4.H2O to provide 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg of supplemental Zn. Supplemental Zn did not affect weight gain, feed intake, or gain/feed during either the growing or the finishing period (P > .05). However, bone and plasma Zn concentrations increased linearly (P < .01) in response to supplemental Zn at dietary Zn levels between 27 mg/kg (basal) and 47 mg/kg (breakpoint). In Exp. 2, three levels of supplemental Zn from ZnSO4.H2O (0, 7.5, and 15 mg/kg of supplemental Zn) were used to construct a standard curve (metacarpal, coccygeal vertebrae, and plasma Zn concentrations regressed on supplemental Zn intake; R2 = .93, .89, and .82, respectively). From the standard curve, the bone and plasma Zn concentrations obtained from pigs fed 15 mg/kg of supplemental Zn from ZnO and 7.5 mg/kg of supplemental Zn from Zn-methionine (ZnMET) and Zn-lysine (ZnLYS) were used to calculate bioavailable Zn via multiple linear regression, slope-ratio analysis. The estimates of Zn bioavailability differed depending on which variable was used. Overall trends indicated the following rankings: ZnSO4.H2O > ZnMet > ZnO > ZnLys.
The penetration of root canal sealers into dentinal tubules. A scanning electron microscopic study.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of smear layer on penetration of four root sealers into dentinal tubules. Sixty-four, recently extracted, human maxillary and mandibular incisors were used. Following removal of the crowns, the pulps were extirpated and the root canals instrumented. The teeth were then divided into two groups. The teeth in the control group were irrigated with saline solution and the experimental group treated with EDTA and NaOCl. Each main group was then divided into four sub-groups and the root canals filled with Diaket, N2 Universal, SPAD and Forfenan as recommended by the manufacturers. The teeth were split longitudinally and examined using scanning electron microscopy. A quantitative assessment was made of sealer penetration into the dentinal tubules in the coronal, middle and apical parts of each root canal. It was observed that the smear layer obstructed the penetration of the tubules by the sealers. However, in the experimental group, the penetration into dentinal tubules was better with Diaket, N2 and SPAD, than with Forfenan (P < 0.01). It was concluded that this penetration could be affected by physical and chemical properties of root canal filling materials.
