Cell-cell contacts in the human cell line ECV304 exhibit both endothelial and epithelial characteristics.	Endothelial cells separate the intra- and extravascular space and regulate transport processes between these compartments. Since intercellular junctions are required for these specific cell functions, the cell-cell contacts in the permanent cell line ECV304 were systematically analyzed and compared with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) in primary culture and with the epithelial Madin Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cell line. Filter-grown ECV304 cells generate a distinct electrical resistance and a permeability barrier between cell culture compartments. Electron microscopy of ECV304 cells revealed lateral membrane interdigitations, typically found in endothelial cells in vivo, with direct membrane contact sites, which prevented the diffusion of lanthanum. By immunoblot and immunofluorescence analysis, the expression and cellular localization of the tight junction and adherens-type junction proteins occludin, ZO-1, symplekin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin were analyzed. ECV304 cells display further characteristics of endothelial cells, including the expresssion of thrombomodulin and of the vitronectin receptor CD51, as well as the secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) and endothelin. However, ECV304 cells also express proteins characteristically found in epithelial cells, including E-cadherin and the desmosomal proteins desmoplakin, desmocollin, and desmoglein; occasionally desmosomal structures can be identified by electron microscopy. In conclusion, ECV304 cells express many endothelial markers and form specialized intercellular junctions that display some epithelial features. Thus this reportedly endothelial-derived permanent human cell line may be dedifferentiated toward an epithelial phenotype.
The arm-repeat protein NPRAP (neurojungin) is a constituent of the plaques of the outer limiting zone in the retina, defining a novel type of adhering junction.	In the retina, special plaque-bearing adhering junctions are aligned to form a planar system (the "outer limiting zone," OLZ) of heterotypic connections between the photoreceptor cells and the surrounding glial cells ("Müller cells"), together with homotypic junctions. In the plaques of these junctions, which contain N-cadherin-and possibly also related cadherins-we have identified, by immunolocalization techniques, a recently discovered neural tissue-specific protein, neurojungin, a member of the plakoglobin/armadillo protein family. In these plaques we have also detected other adherens plaque proteins, such as alpha- and beta-catenin, protein p120, and vinculin, as well as proteins known as constituents of tight junction plaques, such as symplekin and protein ZO-1, and the desmosomal plaque protein plakophilin 2. This unusual combination of proteins and the demonstrated absence of plakoglobin define the OLZ junctions as a new and distinct category of adhering junction, which probably has special architectural functions.
Interdomain chaperoning between PSD-95, Dlg, and Zo-1 (PDZ) domains of glutamate receptor-interacting proteins.	The multiple PSD-95, Dlg, and Zo-1 (PDZ) domain protein, glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP), is involved in the clustering and trafficking of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor by directly binding to the cytoplasmic tail of the receptor's GluR2 subunit. Both the forth and fifth PDZ domains (PDZ4 and PDZ5) of GRIP are required for effective binding to the receptor. Using NMR and circular dichroism spectroscopic techniques, we show that PDZ5 is completely unstructured in solution. Freshly prepared PDZ4 is largely folded, but the domain can spontaneously unfold. Neither PDZ4 nor PDZ5 binds to GluR2 in solution. Unexpectedly, when PDZ4 and PDZ5 are covalently connected (i.e. PDZ45), both PDZ domains become well folded and stable in solution. The covalent linkage of the two PDZ domains is essential for proper folding of the tandem PDZ domains and its effective binding to GluR2. The interdomain chaperoning effect observed in the PDZ domains of GRIP represents a previously uncharacterized function of PDZ domains.
The bHLH transcription factor Mist1 is required to maintain exocrine pancreas cell organization and acinar cell identity.	The pancreas is a complex organ that consists of separate endocrine and exocrine cell compartments. Although great strides have been made in identifying regulatory factors responsible for endocrine pancreas formation, the molecular regulatory circuits that control exocrine pancreas properties are just beginning to be elucidated. In an effort to identify genes involved in exocrine pancreas function, we have examined Mist1, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor expressed in pancreatic acinar cells. Mist1-null (Mist1(KO)) mice exhibit extensive disorganization of exocrine tissue and intracellular enzyme activation. The exocrine disorganization is accompanied by increases in p8, RegI/PSP, and PAP1/RegIII gene expression, mimicking the molecular changes observed in pancreatic injury. By 12 m, Mist1(KO) mice develop lesions that contain cells coexpressing acinar and duct cell markers. Analysis of the factors involved in cholecystokinin (CCK) signaling reveal inappropriate levels of the CCK receptor A and the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor 3, suggesting that a functional defect exists in the regulated exocytosis pathway of Mist1(KO) mice. Based on these observations, we propose that Mist1(KO) mice represent a new genetic model for chronic pancreas injury and that the Mist1 protein serves as a key regulator of acinar cell function, stability, and identity.
Lung epithelial barrier function and wound healing are decreased by IL-4 and IL-13 and enhanced by IFN-gamma.	To understand the effects of cytokines on epithelial cells in asthma, we have investigated the effects of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-13, and interferon (IFN)-gamma on barrier function and wound healing in Calu-3 human lung epithelial cells. IL-4 and IL-13 treatment of Calu-3 cells grown on Transwell filters resulted in a 70-75% decrease in barrier function as assessed by electrophysiological and [(14)C]mannitol flux measurements. In contrast, IFN-gamma enhanced barrier function threefold using these same parameters. Cells treated concurrently with IFN-gamma and IL-4 or IL-13 showed an initial decline in barrier function that was reversed within 2 days, resulting in barrier levels comparable to control cells. Analysis of the tight junction-associated proteins ZO-1 and occludin showed that IL-4 and IL-13 significantly reduced ZO-1 expression and modestly decreased occludin expression compared with controls. IFN-gamma, quite unexpectedly given its enhancing effect on barrier function, reduced expression of ZO-1 and occludin to almost undetectable levels compared with controls. In wound-healing assays of cells grown on collagen I, IL-4 and IL-13 decreased migration, whereas IFN-gamma treatment enhanced migration, compared with control cells. Addition of IFN-gamma, in combination with IL-4 or IL-13, restored migration of cells to control levels. Migration differences observed between the various cytokine treatments was correlated with expression of the collagen I-binding alpha(2)beta(1)-integrin at the leading edge of cells at the wound front; alpha(2)beta(1)-integrin expression was decreased in IFN-gamma-treated cells compared with controls, whereas it was highest in IL-4- and IL-13-treated cells. These results demonstrate that IL-4 and IL-13 diminish the capacity of Calu-3 cells to maintain barrier function and repair wounds, whereas IFN-gamma promotes epithelial restitution by enhancing barrier function and wound healing.
Use of surface plasmon resonance for real-time analysis of the interaction of ZO-1 and occludin.	Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy was applied to study in real time, the interaction between the tight junction proteins ZO-1 and occludin. To imitate the morphology of tight junctions, a cytosolic tail of mouse occludin was immobilised at the sensor and guanylate kinase-like domain (Guk) was allowed to pass over the modified chip surface. The Guk domain of ZO-1 (residues 644-812) was found to bind to the cytoplasmic, carboxy-terminal region of occludin (residues 378-521). This interaction was systematically characterised with respect to the concentrations of both proteins and the binding conditions. Under the given experimental conditions, association and dissociation showed saturation kinetics, with affinity in micromolar range: k(a) = 4.14 +/- 0.52 x 10(3) M(-1) s(-1), k(d) = 3.04 +/- 0.38 x 10(-3) s(-1), K(D) = 639 +/- 51 nM. The results support the hypothesis that the Guk domain of ZO-1 is involved in the recruitment of the transmembrane protein occludin at tight junctions by interacting with the cytosolic carboxy-terminal sequence of occludin, located far from the cell membrane. We demonstrate the use of SPR spectroscopy as an effective approach for characterisation of the interactions of junction proteins.
Unraveling the molecular make-up of the glomerular podocyte slit diaphragm.	Recent discoveries in podocyte proteins involved in the renal filtration barrier have shed new light on the ultrastructure of the kidney filter and pathogenesis of proteinuria. The identification of nephrin, a component of the slit diaphragm, and the intracellular slit diaphragm associated proteins CD2AP and podocin has demonstrated the existence of proteins that directly contribute to a functional kidney filter. Mutations in the genes for these three proteins result in proteinuria and nephrotic syndrome, and these proteins are also likely to be involved more generally in the pathomechanisms of proteinuria. This new knowledge has been promoted particularly through the powerful methods of molecular genetics and molecular biology. In this minireview, we present the recent progress in research of the podocyte slit diaphragm.
SAP97 interacts with Kv1.5 in heterologous expression systems.	PDZ domain-containing proteins such as SAP97 and ZO-1 have been implicated in the targeting and clustering of ion channels. We have explored the interactions of these polypeptides with a cardiac voltage-gated potassium channel. Immunocytochemistry in cardiac myocytes revealed colocalization of SAP97 and Kv1.5, both at the intercalated disks and the lateral membranes. Transient transfection experiments in COS-7 cells revealed that SAP97 and Kv1.5 polypeptides formed perinuclear clustered complexes that could be coimmunoprecipitated. Mutation of the three COOH-terminal amino acid residues of Kv1.5 (T-D-L to A-A-A) abolished these interactions. Whereas in most COS-7 cells the SAP97-Kv1.5 complexes were retained in the ER, functional analyses in Xenopus oocytes showed that Kv1.5-encoded outward potassium currents were augmented by coexpression with SAP97. By contrast, cotransfected ZO-1 and Kv1.5 polypeptides in COS-7 cells could not be coprecipitated nor did the coinjection of ZO-1 augment the Kv1.5-encoded currents in oocytes. Collectively, our results suggest that SAP97 may play an important role in the modulation of Kv1.5 channel function in cardiac myocytes.
Epidermal tight junctions: ZO-1 and occludin are expressed in mature, developing, and affected skin and in vitro differentiating keratinocytes.	This study demonstrates the presence of tight junction antigens in adult and developing human epidermis. Indirect immunofluorescence labeling and immunoelectron microscopy with antibodies to ZO-1 and occludin localized tight junction components ZO-1 and occludin to a narrow zone of the granular cells of adult epidermis. Double immunolabeling for tight junction components with adherens junction or desmosome proteins suggested that occludin is more specific for tight junctions than ZO-1, which may also be associated with adherens junctions. In developing skin, tight junctions interconnected the peridermal cells, and after the fetal stratification localized to the granular cell layer. Immunolabeling of psoriasis, lichen planus, and ichthyosis vulgaris, representing aberrant differentiation of the epidermis, showed that these conditions were associated with relocation of ZO-1 and occludin to the spinous cells. Cultures of epidermal keratinocytes, which offer a useful model for the formation of cellular contacts, revealed that tight junction components, ZO-1 and occludin, displayed a marked degree of colocalization relatively late during the process when the fusion zone had assumed a linear appearance. This suggests that the formation of adherens junctions and desmosomes precedes that of tight junctions. We speculate that the epidermal barrier, isolating the human body from the external environment, is in part formed by tight junctions of stratum granulosum.
Role of stretch on tight junction structure in alveolar epithelial cells.	Previous studies have demonstrated that high tidal volumes can cause interstitial and alveolar edema, with degradation of pulmonary epithelial barrier integrity. Separate studies have shown that F-actin disruption and decreased intracellular ATP (ATP(i)) levels in the nonpulmonary epithelium can increase tight junction (TJ) permeability. We hypothesized that large epithelial stretch perturbs ATP(i) and actin architecture, each of which adversely affects TJ structure, and thus increases TJ permeability. Primary alveolar epithelial cells were subjected to a uniform 25% or 37% change in surface area (DeltaSA), cyclic biaxial stretch (15 cycles/min) for 1 h, or treated with either glycolytic metabolic inhibitors or cytoskeletal disrupting agents. Unstretched, untreated cells served as controls. Changes in the TJ proteins occludin and ZO-1 were determined by immunocytochemical evaluation. A stretch amplitude of 25% DeltaSA did not produce any significant cytologic changes compared with controls, but an amplitude of 37% DeltaSA stretch resulted in significant decreases in the intensity of the peripheral occludin band, the degree of cell-cell attachment (CCA), and total cellular occludin content. ATP depletion significantly diminished the occludin band intensity and decreased CCA. Actin disruption did not affect TJ protein band intensities (although the occludin distribution became punctate) but altered CCA. Untreated cells stretched cyclically at 25% or 50% DeltaSA for 1 h had significantly decreased ATP(i) compared with unstretched controls. These results suggest that stretch-induced ATP(i) reduction and actin perturbation disrupt TJ structure and CCA, which may lead to the alveolar flooding associated with high tidal volumes.
RA175, which is the mouse ortholog of TSLC1, a tumor suppressor gene in human lung cancer, is a cell adhesion molecule.	RA175, a new immunoglobulin superfamily member, is preferentially expressed during differentiation of P19 embryonic carcinoma (EC) cells induced by retinoic acid. In the present study, we isolated mouse RA175 cDNA in its entirety and showed that RA175 is the mouse ortholog of TSLC1, a tumor suppressor gene in human lung cancer. RA175/TSLC1 was localized in the adherent region of human lung squamous carcinoma cells and in the differentiated P19 EC cells. RA175/TSLC1 showed homophilic trans-interaction activity in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. RA175/TSLC1 was preferentially expressed in the polarized cells lining the lumen of developing mouse lung epithelium. This suggests that RA175/TSLC1 is a cell adhesion molecule that is acting as a tumor suppressor gene in the metastasis of lung tumors. RA175/TSLC1 may be necessary for cells to remain tightly associated in the epithelium, thereby suppressing metastasis.
Lens connexins alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50 interact with zonula occludens protein-1 (ZO-1).	Connexin alpha1Cx43 has previously been shown to bind to the PDZ domain-containing protein ZO-1. The similarity of the carboxyl termini of this connexin and the lens fiber connexins alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50 suggested that these connexins may also interact with ZO-1. ZO-1 was shown to be highly expressed in mouse lenses. Colocalization of ZO-1 with alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50 connexins in fiber cells was demonstrated by immunofluorescence and by fracture-labeling electron microscopy but showed regional variations throughout the lens. ZO-1 was found to coimmunoprecipitate with alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50, and pull-down experiments showed that the second PDZ domain of ZO-1 was involved in this interaction. Transiently expressed alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50 connexins lacking the COOH-terminal residues did not bind to the second PDZ domain but still formed structures resembling gap junctions by immunofluorescence. These results indicate that ZO-1 interacts with lens fiber connexins alpha3Cx46 and alpha8Cx50 in a manner similar to that previously described for alpha1Cx43. The spatial variation in the interaction of ZO-1 with lens gap junctions is intriguing and is suggestive of multiple dynamic roles for this association.
SSeCKS regulates angiogenesis and tight junction formation in blood-brain barrier.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for maintaining brain homeostasis and low permeability. BBB maintenance is important in the central nervous system (CNS) because disruption of the BBB may contribute to many brain disorders, including Alzheimer disease and ischemic stroke. The molecular mechanisms of BBB development remain ill-defined, however. Here we report that src-suppressed C-kinase substrate (SSeCKS) decreases the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) through AP-1 reduction and stimulates expression of angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1), an antipermeability factor in astrocytes. Conditioned media from SSeCKS-overexpressing astrocytes (SSeCKS-CM) blocked angiogenesis in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, SSeCKS-CM increased tight junction proteins in endothelial cells, consequently decreasing [3H]sucrose permeability. Furthermore, immunoreactivity to SSeCKS gradually increased during the BBB maturation period, and SSeCKS-expressing astrocytes closely interacted with zonula occludens (ZO)-1-expressing blood vessels in vivo. Collectively, our results suggest that SSeCKS regulates BBB differentiation by modulating both brain angiogenesis and tight junction formation.
Expression of gap junction protein connexin43 in the adult rat cochlea: comparison with connexin26.	To elucidate whether the two different gap junction proteins connexin43 (Cx43) and connexin26 (Cx26) are expressed and localized in a similar manner in the adult rat cochlea, we performed three-dimensional confocal microscopy using cryosections and surface preparations. In the cochlear lateral wall, Cx43-positive spots were localized mainly in the stria vascularis and only a few spots were present in the spiral ligament, whereas Cx26-positive spots were detected in both the stria vascularis and the spiral ligament. In the spiral limbus, Cx43 was widely distributed, whereas Cx26 was more concentrated on the side facing the scala vestibuli and in the basal portion. In the organ of Corti, Cx43-positive spots were present between the supporting cells but they were fewer and much smaller than those of Cx26. These data demonstrated distinct differences between Cx43 and Cx26 in expression and localization in the cochlea. In addition, the area of overlap of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) immunolabeling with Cx43-positive spots was small, whereas it was fairly large with Cx26-positive spots in the cochlear lateral wall, suggesting that the differences are not associated with the structural difference between carboxyl terminals, i.e., those of Cx43 possess sequences for binding to ZO-1, whereas those of Cx26 lack these binding sequences.
Role of iNOS in hepatocyte tight junction alteration in mouse model of experimental colitis.	A variety of hepatobiliary abnormalities occur in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). The role of tight junction (TJ) in hepatobiliary complications have been well described. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of inducible nitric oxide (NOS) in alteration of hepatocyte TJ paracellular barrier and in the rapid transcytotic vesicular pathway modification associated with intestinal inflammation. To address this question, we used an experimental model of colitis, induced by dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS). When compared to DNBS-treated iNOS wild-type (WT) mice, DNBS-treated iNOS knock out mice (iNOSKO) mice experienced a significant less rate of the extent and severity of the histological signs of colon injury. Colon levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor, interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 were also significantly reduced in iNOS-KO mice in comparison to wild-type mice. Liver histology from iNOSKO and wild-type mice iNOSWT did not show any parenchymal and portal tract inflammation at 4 days after DNBS administration. Serum total bilirubin and alanine aminotransferase, were significantly reduced in DNBS-iNOSKO mice vs DNBS-iNOSKO mice. Therefore, we found an increase of tight junctional permeability to lanthanum nitrate (molecular weight, 433) in the livers from DNBS-treated IL-10WT mice, lanthanum accumulated throughout the junctional area up to the most apical region bordering the lumen. Absence of a functional iNOS gene in iNOSKO mice resulted in a significant reduction of apical diffusion of lanthanum after DNBS-induced colitis. Immunofluorescent labeling of frozen liver sections from DNBS-iNOSWT mice showed a significant alteration of the immunolocalization for claudin-1 and zonula occludens (ZO)-1. In contrast, a significant reduced alteration in the localization of the immunosignals for claudin-1 and ZO-1 was observed in the liver from iNOSKO mice after DNBS administration. In conclusion, we suggest that the iNOS may represent an important pathophysiological mechanism of hepatobiliary injuries and cholestasis observed in patients with IBD.
Disruption of epithelial barrier function by H2O2: distinct responses of Caco-2 and Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) strains.	Modulation of epithelial function by oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide may contribute to a variety of disease processes. The effects of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) on epithelial barrier function and tight junction protein distribution were compared in three distinct types of polarised epithelial cell, each of which was found to respond differently to H2O2. Of the cell-lines examined, Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) stain II was the most susceptible to H2O2 and Caco-2 the least H2O2 induced a decrease in transepithelial electrical resistance in all three epithelial cell-lines which was accompanied by redistribution of the tight junction protein occludin in Caco-2 and MDCK II but not MDCK I, cell layers. The effects of H2O2 on epithelia displayed marked asymmetry, each cell-line being affected more by basal than apical application of H2O2. Genistein partially prevented the effects of H2O2 on Caco-2 cells suggesting a role for protein tyrosine phosphorylation in H2O2-induced epithelial barrier dysfunction. However, genistein was without effect on the responses of MDCK cells to H2O2. Taken together these data indicate that H2O2 has distinct effects onthe tight junctions of epithelial cells from different origins and suggest that enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation is a contributory factor inthe enhanced permeability of some, but possibly not all, epithelial cell-lines.
Neph1 and nephrin interaction in the slit diaphragm is an important determinant of glomerular permeability.	Neph1-deficient mice develop nephrotic syndrome at birth, indicating the importance of this protein in the development of a normal glomerular filtration barrier. While the precise subcellular localization of Neph1 remains unknown, its relationship with other components of the glomerular filtration barrier is of great interest in this field. In this paper, we localize the expression of Neph1 to the glomerular slit diaphragm by immunogold electron microscopy in rodents and describe its direct interaction with two other components of the slit diaphragm, nephrin and ZO-1. Both native and recombinant Neph1 associate with each other as dimers and multimers and interact with nephrin via their extracellular segments. Disruption of the Neph1-nephrin interaction in vivo by injecting combinations of individual subnephritogenic doses of anti-Neph1 and anti-nephrin results in complement- and leukocyte-independent proteinuria with preserved foot processes. This disruption modestly reduces Neph1 and nephrin protein expression in podocytes and dramatically reduces ZO-1 protein expression via the interaction of ZO-1 PDZ domains with the cytoplasmic tail of Neph1, independent of changes in mRNA expression of all three genes. The interaction between nephrin and Neph1 is specific and not shared by either protein with P-cadherin, another integral slit diaphragm protein. The interaction between nephrin and Neph1 therefore appears to be an important determinant of glomerular permeability.
RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42 exert distinct effects on epithelial barrier via selective structural and biochemical modulation of junctional proteins and F-actin.	Epithelial intercellular junctions regulate cell-cell contact and mucosal barrier function. Both tight junctions (TJs) and adherens junctions (AJs) are regulated in part by their affiliation with the F-actin cytoskeleton. The cytoskeleton in turn is influenced by Rho family small GTPases such as RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42, all of which constitute eukaryotic targets for several pathogenic organisms. With a tetracycline-repressible system to achieve regulated expression in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) epithelial cells, we used dominant-negative (DN) and constitutively active (CA) forms of RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42 as tools to evaluate the precise contribution of each GTPase to epithelial structure and barrier function. All mutant GTPases induced time-dependent disruptions in epithelial gate function and distinct morphological alterations in apical and basal F-actin pools. TJ proteins occludin, ZO-1, claudin-1, claudin-2, and junctional adhesion molecule (JAM)-1 were dramatically redistributed in the presence of CA RhoA or CA Cdc42, whereas only claudins-1 and -2 were redistributed in response to CA Rac1. DN Rac1 expression also induced selective redistribution of claudins-1 and -2 in addition to JAM-1, whereas DN Cdc42 influenced only claudin-2 and DN RhoA had no effect. AJ protein localization was unaffected by any mutant GTPase, but DN Rac1 induced a reduction in E-cadherin detergent solubility. All CA GTPases increased the detergent solubility of claudins-1 and -2, but CA RhoA alone reduced claudin-2 and ZO-1 partitioning to detergent-insoluble membrane rafts. We conclude that Rho family GTPases regulate epithelial intercellular junctions via distinct morphological and biochemical mechanisms and that perturbations in barrier function reflect any imbalance in active/resting GTPase levels rather than simply loss or gain of GTPase activity.
Tight junctions in differentiating ameloblasts and odontoblasts differentially express ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-1 in early odontogenesis of rat molars.	Little is known about the expression of associated proteins during the assembly of tight junctions (TJs). We studied the distribution of ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-1 between differentiating ameloblasts and odontoblasts in molar tooth germs from 1- to 3-day-old rats by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Immunoreactivity for ZO-1 was strong at proximal and distal junctional complexes of differentiating ameloblasts, while it was weak and punctuate at the distal region of differentiating odontoblasts. Occludin was immunoreactive at distal and proximal complexes of early differentiating ameloblasts and at distal regions of differentiating odontoblasts. However, in more advanced stages, occludin was only evident at the proximal complex of ameloblasts. Claudin-1 was strongly detected at the proximal complex but it was weak at distal complex of late differentiating ameloblasts. Thus, our results showed that ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-1 are differentially expressed as TJs assemble for regulating polarity and/or paracellular permeability in differentiating ameloblasts and odontoblasts.
Regulation of cellular and molecular trafficking across human brain endothelial cells by Th1- and Th2-polarized lymphocytes.	We used adult human brain-derived endothelial cells (HBECs) to model migration of peripheral blood lymphocytes across the blood brain barrier (BBB) as occurs in MS. We demonstrate that enhanced expression of adhesion molecule ICAM-1 and production of chemokines CXCL10/IP-10, CCL2/MCP-1, and CXCL8/IL-8 by HBECs induced by supernatants derived from allogeneic or myelin basic protein-reactive Th1 cells is only partially reversed with anti-IFNgamma antibody. This effect is not reproduced with IFNgamma or TNFalpha alone, implicating the interaction of multiple factors in the overall functional response. Supernatants from Th2 cells neither suppressed nor amplified Th1-induced effects. Although both Th1 and Th2 supernatants modulated the expression and localization of tight junction molecules zonula occludens (ZO)-1 and ZO-2, neither supernatant altered the permeability of HBEC monolayers to albumin or increased subsequent T cell migration rates. Prior migration of Th1 or Th2 cells across HBECs did enhance subsequent passage of cells and soluble molecules. Our results suggest that initial infiltration of either Th1 or Th2 polarized lymphocytes across the BBB contributes to the continuation of an inflammatory response in the central nervous system.
The transcription factor Snail downregulates the tight junction components independently of E-cadherin downregulation.	Snail, a transcriptional repressor of E-cadherin expression, is involved in epithelial-mesenchymal transitions during development. We demonstrate that Snail activity is not restricted to E-cadherin downregulation. Expression of tight junction proteins, including claudin-1, occludin and ZO-1, was downregulated in MDCK cells exogenously expressing Snail protein. Although occludin mRNA levels were downregulated by Snail expression, the transcription of claudin-1 and ZO-1 were unaffected. Reporter assays using the claudin-1 promoter region revealed that promoter activity was not affected by Snail overexpression. Decreased synthesis of claudin-1 protein was observed, however, suggesting that Snail may act in translation initiation. Snail expression also altered the splicing pattern of p120. The levels of mRNA encoding the epithelial variant decreased, while the fibroblastic mRNA form increased. Although ectopic E-cadherin expression resulted in a downregulation of Snail-induced fibronectin expression, fibroblastic morphology was affected only minimally; the expression of tight junctional proteins remained at low levels. These results indicate that Snail is involved in both the direct transcriptional repression of genes, such as E-cadherin and occludin, and post-transcriptional events, including downregulation of claudin-1. These data support the idea that Snail is a transcription factor possessing pleiotropic activities.
Enhanced podocalyxin expression alters the structure of podocyte basal surface.	Glomerular basement membrane (GBM) and podocalyxin are essential for podocyte morphology. We provide evidence of functional interconnections between basement membrane components (collagen IV and laminin), the expression of podocalyxin and the morphology of human glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes). We demonstrated that GBM and laminin, but not collagen IV, up-regulated the expression of podocalyxin. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that laminin induced a modified morphology of podocytes with process formation, which was more extensive in the presence of GBM. Under high magnification, podocytes appeared ruffled. Using transmission electron microscopy we observed that raised areas occurred in the basal cell surface. Furthermore, the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody increased the extent of adhesion and spreading of podocytes to both collagen IV and laminin, thus podocalyxin apparently inhibits cell-matrix interactions. We also performed adhesion and spreading assays on podocytes grown under increased glucose concentration (25 mM). Under these conditions, the expression of podocalyxin was almost totally suppressed. The cells adhered and spread to basement membrane components but there was no increase in the extent of adhesion and spreading in the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody, or ruffling of the cell edges. Additionally, in podocytes expressing podocalyxin, the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody partially reversed the inhibition of adhesion to collagen IV provoked by anti-beta1 integrin antibody, thus podocalyxin should compete with beta1-related cell adhesion. We suggest that the observed podocalyxin-mediated inhibition of binding to the matrix could be in part responsible for the specialized conformation of the basal surface of podocytes.
Toll-like receptor 2 enhances ZO-1-associated intestinal epithelial barrier integrity via protein kinase C.	Protein kinase C (PKC) has been implicated in regulation of intestinal epithelial integrity in response to lumenal bacteria. Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) constitutively express Toll-like receptor (TLR)2, which contains multiple potential PKC binding sites. The aim of this study was to determine whether TLR2 may activate PKC in response to specific ligands, thus potentially modulating barrier function in IECs.
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli infection leads to appearance of aberrant tight junctions strands in the lateral membrane of intestinal epithelial cells.	Infection of intestinal epithelial cells with enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) disrupts tight junction (TJ) architecture and barrier function. The aim of this study was to determine the impact of EPEC on TJ protein interactions and localization. Human intestinal epithelial cells (T84) were infected for 1, 3 or 6 h with EPEC. To probe the TJ protein-protein interactions, co-immunoprecipitations were performed. The associations between ZO-1, occludin and claudin-1 progressively decreased after infection. Corresponding morphological changes were analysed by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy. Tight junction proteins progressively lost their apically restricted localization. Freeze-fracture electron microscopy revealed the appearance of aberrant strands throughout the lateral membrane that contained claudin-1 and occludin as determined by immunogold labelling. These structural alterations were accompanied by a loss of barrier function. Mutation of the gene encoding EspF, important in the disruption of TJs by EPEC, prevented the disruption of TJs. Tight junction structure normalized following eradication of EPEC with gentamicin and overnight recovery. This is the first demonstration that a microbial pathogen can cause aberrant TJ strands in the lateral membrane of host cells. We speculate that the disruption of integral and cytoplasmic TJ protein interactions following EPEC infection allows TJ strands to form or diffuse into the lateral plasma membrane.
Oncogenic Raf-1 regulates epithelial to mesenchymal transition via distinct signal transduction pathways in an immortalized mouse hepatic cell line.	The epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is considered to be an important event during malignant tumor progression and metastasis. Although Raf/MEK/ERK signaling causes EMT, the mechanisms, including the signaling pathways, are as yet unclear. In the present study we have examined the effects of signal transduction pathways on oncogenic Raf-1-induced EMT, using an immortalized mouse hepatic cell line. Oncogenic Raf-1-induced EMT is characterized by down-regulation of adherens and tight junctions and the reorganization of actin. An active Raf-1 gene was introduced into a mouse hepatic cell line which was then treated with the MAP kinase inhibitor PD98059, the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB203580, the PI3 kinase inhibitor LY294002 or the c-Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2. The expression and localization of the adherens and tight junction proteins E-cadherin, occludin, ZO-1, claudin-1 and claudin-2 were determined by western blotting, RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. The barrier function of tight junctions was assessed by measurements of transepithelial electric resistance (TER) and permeability in terms of fluxes of [(14)C]mannitol and [(14)C]inulin. In Raf-1-transfected cells expression of occludin and claudin-2 was markedly down-regulated at the protein and mRNA levels and the TER value was decreased, while the permeability was increased. The distribution of ZO-1, pancadherin and F-actin was changed from linear to zipper-like structures at cell borders. In Raf-1-transfected cells treated with PD98059 and SB203580, but not LY294002, expression and localization of claudin-2, but not occludin, recovered, together with barrier function, measured as the TER value. The distributions of ZO-1, pancadherin and F-actin also recovered on treatment with PD98059 and SB203580, but not LY294002. Expression and localization of occludin recovered slightly on treatment with PP2. Thus, oncogenic Raf-1 regulates EMT via distinct MAP kinase, p38 MAP kinase and c-Src tyrosine kinase signal pathways in the mouse hepatic cell line.
Association of ARVCF with zonula occludens (ZO)-1 and ZO-2: binding to PDZ-domain proteins and cell-cell adhesion regulate plasma membrane and nuclear localization of ARVCF.	ARVCF, an armadillo-repeat protein of the p120(ctn) family, associates with classical cadherins and is present in adherens junctions, but its function is poorly understood. Here, we show that ARVCF interacts via a C-terminal PDZ-binding motif with zonula occludens (ZO)-1 and ZO-2. ARVCF and ZO-1 partially colocalize in the vicinity of the apical adhesion complex in polarized epithelial Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. ARVCF, ZO-1, and E-cadherin form a complex and are recruited to sites of initial cell-cell contact in sparse cell cultures. E-cadherin binding and plasma membrane localization of ARVCF require the PDZ-binding motif. Disruption of cell-cell adhesion releases ARVCF from the plasma membrane and an increased fraction of the protein localizes to the nucleus. Nuclear localization of ARVCF also requires the PDZ-binding motif and can be mediated by the PDZ domains of ZO-2. Thus, the interaction of ARVCF with distinct PDZ-domain proteins determines its subcellular localization. Interactions with ZO-1 and ZO-2, in particular, may mediate recruitment of ARVCF to the plasma membrane and the nucleus, respectively, possibly in response to cell-cell adhesion cues.
The phosphoinositol 3,4-bisphosphate-binding protein TAPP1 interacts with syntrophins and regulates actin cytoskeletal organization.	Syntrophins are scaffold proteins of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex (DGC), which target ion channels, receptors, and signaling proteins to specialized subcellular domains. A yeast two-hybrid screen of a human brain cDNA library with the PSD-95, Discs-large, ZO-1 (PDZ) domain of gamma1-syntrophin yielded overlapping clones encoding the C terminus of TAPP1, a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain-containing adapter protein that interacts specifically with phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PI(3,4)P(2)). In biochemical assays, the C terminus of TAPP1 bound specifically to the PDZ domains of gamma1-, alpha1-, and beta2-syntrophin and was required for syntrophin binding and for the correct subcellular localization of TAPP1. TAPP1 is recruited to the plasma membrane of cells stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), a motogen that produces PI(3,4)P(2). Cell migration in response to PDGF stimulation is characterized by a rapid reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, which gives rise to plasma membrane specializations including peripheral and dorsal circular ruffles. Both TAPP1 and syntrophins were localized to PDGF-induced circular membrane ruffles in NIH-3T3 cells. Ectopic expression of TAPP1 potently blocked PDGF-induced formation of dorsal circular ruffles, but did not affect peripheral ruffling. Interestingly, coexpression of alpha1- or gamma1-syntrophin with TAPP1 prevented the blockade of circular ruffling. In addition to syntrophins, several other proteins of the DGC were enriched in circular ruffles. Collectively, our results suggest syntrophins regulate the localization of TAPP1, which may be important for remodeling the actin cytoskeleton in response to growth factor stimulation.
Specific AHNAK expression in brain endothelial cells with barrier properties.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for maintaining brain homeostasis and low permeability. Because disruption of the BBB may contribute to many brain disorders, they are of considerable interests in the identification of the molecular mechanisms of BBB development and integrity. We here report that the giant protein AHNAK is expressed at the plasma membrane of endothelial cells (ECs) forming specific blood-tissue barriers, but is absent from the endothelium of capillaries characterized by extensive molecular exchanges between blood and extracellular fluid. In the brain, AHNAK is widely distributed in ECs with BBB properties, where it co-localizes with the tight junction protein ZO-1. AHNAK is absent from the permeable brain ECs of the choroid plexus and is down-regulated in permeable angiogenic ECs of brain tumors. In the choroid plexus, AHNAK accumulates at the tight junctions of the choroid epithelial cells that form the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier. In EC cultures, the regulation of AHNAK expression and its localization corresponds to general criteria of a protein involved in barrier organization. AHNAK is up-regulated by angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1), a morphogenic factor that regulates brain EC permeability. In bovine cerebral ECs co-cultured with glial cells, AHNAK relocates from the cytosol to the plasma membrane when endothelial cells acquire BBB properties. Our results identify AHNAK as a protein marker of endothelial cells with barrier properties.
Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical characterization of the bovine epiblast.	The epiblast represents the final embryonic founder cell population with the potential for giving rise to all cell types of the adult body. The pluripotency of the epiblast is lost during the process of gastrulation. Large animal species have a lack of specific markers for pluripotency. The aim of the present study was to characterize the bovine epiblast cell population and to provide such markers. Bovine Day 12 and Day 14 embryos were processed for transmission-electron microscopy or immunohistochemistry. In Day 12 embryos, two cell populations of the epiblast were identified: one constituting a distinctive basal layer apposing the hypoblast, and one arranged inside or above the former layer, including cells apposing the Rauber layer. Immunohistochemically, staining for the octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4, also known as POU5F1), revealed a specific and exclusive staining of nuclei of the complete epiblast. Colocalization of vimentin and OCT4 was demonstrated. Only trophectodermal cells stained for alkaline phosphatase. Staining for the proliferation marker Ki-67 was localized to most nuclei throughout the epiblast. A continuous staining for zonula occludens-1 protein was found between cells of the trophectoderm and hypoblast but was not evident in the epiblast. A basement membrane, detected by staining for laminin, formed a "cup-like" structure in which the epiblast was located. The ventrolateral sides of the cup appeared to be incomplete. In conclusion, the bovine epiblast includes at least two cell subpopulations, and OCT4 was shown, to our knowledge for the first time, to be localized exclusively to epiblast cells in this species.
Canonical transient receptor potential channel 4 (TRPC4) co-localizes with the scaffolding protein ZO-1 in human fetal astrocytes in culture.	Members of the mammalian transient receptor potential (TRP) family form cation-permeable channels at the plasma membrane implicated in capacitative calcium influx after activation by either second-messenger-mediated pathways or store depletion, or both. This study shows that with the use of RT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry, resting astrocytes express TRPC4 at the cell membrane, particularly at sites of cell-to-cell contact. By confocal imaging and immunoelectron microscopy, we detected co-localization of TRPC4 with the scaffolding protein zonula occludens 1 (ZO-1), and demonstrated that immunoprecipitation with antibodies to ZO-1 brought down TRPC4, and vice-versa. It has been proposed that the targeting of TRPC4 to the cell membrane is dependent on the interaction of the C-terminal TRL motif with PDZ domains. Using transfection of astrocytes with myc-tagged TRPC4 or TRL-motif truncated TRPC4 (deltaTRL), we found that deltaTRL localized predominantly to a juxtanuclear compartment, whereas the wild-type protein showed cell surface distribution. Deletion of the TRL motif also reduced plasma membrane expression as assessed by cell surface biotinylation experiments. Using GST fusion proteins, we found that TRPC4 interacted with the PDZ1 domain of ZO-1 and that this was also dependent on the TRL motif. Thus, our data demonstrate that the PDZ-interacting domain of TRPC4 controls its cell surface localization. These data implicate TRPC4 in the regulation of calcium homeostasis in astrocytes, particularly as part of a signaling complex that forms at junctional sites between astrocytes.
HGF converts ErbB2/Neu epithelial morphogenesis to cell invasion.	Activation of the hepatocyte growth factor receptor Met induces a morphogenic response and stimulates the formation of branching tubules by Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) epithelial cells in three-dimensional cultures. A constitutively activated ErbB2/Neu receptor, NeuNT, promotes a similar invasive morphogenic program in MDCK cells. Because both receptors are expressed in breast epithelia, are associated with poor prognosis, and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is expressed in stroma, we examined the consequence of cooperation between these signals. We show that HGF disrupts NeuNT-induced epithelial morphogenesis, stimulating the breakdown of cell-cell junctions, dispersal, and invasion of single cells. This correlates with a decrease in junctional proteins claudin-1 and E-cadherin, in addition to the internalization of the tight junction protein ZO-1. HGF-induced invasion of NT-expressing cells is abrogated by pretreatment with a pharmacological inhibitor of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) pathway, which restores E-cadherin and ZO-1 at cell-cell junctions, establishing the involvement of MEK-dependent pathways in this process. These results demonstrate that physiological signals downstream from the HGF/Met receptor synergize with ErbB2/Neu to enhance the malignant phenotype, promoting the breakdown of cell-cell junctions and enhanced cell invasion. This is particularly important for cancers where ErbB2/Neu is overexpressed and HGF is a physiological growth factor found in the stroma.
Tight junction protein MAGI-1 is up-regulated by transfection with connexin 32 in an immortalized mouse hepatic cell line: cDNA microarray analysis.	Gap junctions are considered to play a crucial role in differentiation of epithelial cells, including hepatocytes. Recently, we found that Cx32 but not Cx26 was closely related to tight junctional proteins in primary cultured rat hepatocytes (Kojima et al., Exp Cell Res 263:193-201, 2001) and that Cx32 formation and/or Cx32-mediated intercellular communication could induce expression and function of tight junctions in a mouse hepatic cell line (Kojima et al., Exp Cell Res 276:40-51, 2002). In this study, to investigate the mechanisms of induction of tight junctions by transfection with Cx32, we performed cDNA microarray analysis of Cx32 transfectants, compared with parental cells derived from Cx32-deficient hepatocytes. In cDNA microarray analysis, a 2.5-fold increase in expression of membrane-associated guanylate kinase with inverted orientation-1 (MAGI-1), which is known to be localized at adherens and tight junction regions, was observed. High expression of MAGI-1 in Cx32 transfectants was confirmed by Western blotting and RT-PCR. MAGI-1 was colocalized with occludin, claudin-2, ZO-1, and F-actin, but not with E-cadherin in the apical-most regions at cell borders of Cx32 transfectants, similar to junctional adhesion molecule-1 (JAM-1), which may play a crucial role in formation and assembly of tight junctions. Treatment with the gap junction blocker 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid did not affect expression of MAGI-1 and JAM-1 in Cx32 transfectants. These results suggest that Cx32 expression is in part related to induction of tight junctions through modulation of MAGI-1 expression in an immortalized mouse hepatic cell line.
Changes in the distribution of ZO-1, occludin, and claudins in the rat uterine epithelium during the estrous cycle.	During the estrous cycle, the endometrium epithelium experiences marked cellular structural changes. For fertilization to proceed, maintenance of an adequate uterine environment by ovarian hormones is essential. Epithelial cells lining the uterine lumen are associated with each other by tight junctions (TJs), which regulate the passage of ions and molecules through the paracellular pathway. The aim of the present study was to assess by confocal immunofluorescence the distribution pattern of the TJ proteins ZO-1, occludin, and claudins 1-7 in the rat uterus during the estrous cycle. Our results reveal that on proestrus, the day when mating takes place, ZO-1, occludin, and claudins 1 and 5 are located in the TJs, while claudins 3 and 7 display a basolateral distribution. In contrast, on metestrus day, when no sexual mating occurs and the uterine lumen is devoid of secretions, none of these proteins were detected in the TJ region, and only a diffuse cytosolic staining was observed for some of the proteins. On estrus and diestrus days, an intermediate situation was encountered, since ZO-1 localized in the TJs, whereas occludin was no longer detectable in the TJs. The distribution of claudins during these stages varied from the lowermost portion of the basolateral membrane to its apex. In conclusion, the results show that the protein composition of TJs present in the luminal epithelial cells of the uterus changes during the different days of the estrous cycle, and suggest that the expression of TJ proteins participates in providing an adequate environment for a successful fertilization.
Loss of tight junction plaque molecules in breast cancer tissues is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with breast cancer.	The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of Zonula Occludens (ZO) proteins ZO-1, ZO-2 and ZO-3, and MUPP-1 (multi-PDZ domain protein 1), peripheral/plaque proteins that function in maintaining tight junction integrity and in transducing regulatory signalling events in patients with primary breast cancer. Breast cancer primary tumours (n=114) and background tissues (n=30) were processed for quantitative-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis, Western blotting and immunostaining. Standardised transcript levels of ZO-1 and MUPP-1 were significantly lower in patients with metastatic disease compared with those remaining disease-free (DF) (median follow-up 72.2 months). Immunohistochemistry confirmed these results, with decreased levels in ZO-1 staining. For both ZO-1 and ZO-3, staining was confined to the intercellular regions in normal tissue, whereas in tumour tissues staining was diffuse and cytosolic. Q-PCR revealed a reduction in the levels of ZO-1 and MUPP-1 in patients with disease recurrence. Prognostic indicators of breast cancer were also inversely correlated with ZO-1 expression. We conclude that low levels of tight junction plaque molecules, such as ZO-1 and MUPP-1, in breast cancer are associated with poor patients prognosis.
Making protein interactions druggable: targeting PDZ domains.	Modulating protein-protein interactions involved in disease pathways is an attractive strategy for developing drugs, but remains a challenge to achieve. One approach is to target certain domains within proteins that mediate these interactions. One example of such a domain is the PDZ domain, which is involved in interactions between many different proteins in a variety of cellular contexts. Because PDZ domains have well-defined binding sites, they are promising targets for drug discovery. However, there is still much to learn about the function of these domains before drugs targeting PDZ interactions can become a reality.
ZO-1: lamellipodial localization in a corneal fibroblast wound model.	To explore the roles of ZO-1 in corneal fibroblasts and myofibroblasts in a model of wounding.
Loss of the tight junction protein claudin 4 correlates with histological growth-pattern and differentiation in advanced gastric adenocarcinoma.	The expression of E-cadherin located in the adherens junction varies with disruption of glandular morphology and loss of differentiation. It has been suggested that the loss of tight junction function is related to tumor differentiation, but little is known about the roles of major proteins, such as claudin 4 and ZO-1, in gastric cancer. The aims of this study were to examine the differences in expression of E-cadherin, claudin 4, and ZO-1 proteins according to the pathological and clinical features of advanced gastric cancer. The expression of E-cadherin, claudin 4, and ZO-1 was analyzed immuno-histochemically using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues obtained from 49 patients who underwent radical resection for advanced gastric cancer. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR were performed in representative tumors of the diffuse or intestinal type. Immunostaining for E-cadherin, claudin 4, and ZO-1 was reduced in 69, 69, and 37% of cancers, respectively. Similar patterns of expression were noted for E-cadherin and claudin 4, but ZO-1 expression differed. According to the Lauren classification, the reduced expression of E-cadherin and claudin 4 was more frequent in diffuse than intestinal type tumors (p<0.001). The reduced expression of E-cadherin and claudin 4 correlated with poor differentiation (p<0.05). Western blot analysis and RT-PCR also showed decreased claudin 4 expression in diffuse type tumors and poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma. The reduced expression of claudin 4 and E-cadherin correlates with disruption of glandular structure and loss of differentiation, which suggests that the dysfunction of claudin 4 may play a role in the disruption of cell-to-cell adhesion in diffuse type gastric cancer and in a loss of differentiation.
Repair of damaged organs in vitro.	Treatments that can be performed ex vivo following ischemia to accelerate cellular recovery and ameliorate reperfusion injury could have major impact. An acellular, near-normothermic perfusion was employed to deliver growth factors to ischemically damaged kidneys. During the treatment oxidative metabolism was sufficiently restored to support up-regulation of cellular processes with the potential to modulate both injury and repair proteins in damaged kidneys. The results suggest that growth factor administration, without concomitant inflammation, triggers pathways for new synthesis leading to cellular recovery rather than cell death.
Hypoxia/aglycemia alters expression of occludin and actin in brain endothelial cells.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) serves as a critical organ in the maintenance of central nervous system homeostasis and is disrupted in a number of neurological disorders, including stroke. We examined the effects of hypoxia/aglycemia on the expression and localization of tight junction proteins, and on the function of the BBB in an in vitro model system. A receptor-operated/store-operated calcium channel blocker, SKF 96365, was used to determine if calcium flux was important in mediating hypoxia/aglycemia effects on the BBB. Expression of the tight junction protein occludin increased after hypoxic/aglycemic stress when cells were exposed to SKF 96365; this was correlated with partial protection of membrane localization of occludin and inhibition of the hypoxia-induced increase in permeability. Actin expression was dramatically reduced by hypoxia/aglycemia. Treatment with SKF 96365 during hypoxic stress protected monolayer permeability of sucrose, but transendothelial electrical resistances decreased with exposure to hypoxic stress regardless of treatment. Therefore, the presence of occludin at the membrane is dependent in part on calcium-sensitive signaling cascades; this provides a target for therapeutic intervention to minimize BBB disruption after stroke.
Amniotic membrane maintains the phenotype of rabbit retinal pigment epithelial cells in culture.	The success of surgical removal of choroidal neovascularisation followed by transplantation of autologous retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) for age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) may be limited by damage in Bruch's membrane. We investigated whether amniotic membrane (AM) might be used as an alternative basement membrane-containing matrix to support RPE growth and differentiation. Primary RPE plastic cultures were established from freshly enucleated Dutch belted rabbit eyes in DMEM/F12 containing 0.1 mM Ca(++) and 10% dialysed FBS. Upon subconfluence, cells were subcultured at 5000-9000 cells cm(-2) in the above-mentioned culture medium on intact AM (iAM), epithelially denuded AM (dAM) or plastic. After confluence, the Ca(++) concentration in the medium was increased to 1.8 mm for 4 weeks. Growth and morphology were monitored by phase contrast microscopy, and the phenotype by immunostaining with antibodies against cytokeratin 18, tight junction protein ZO-1, and RPE65 protein, and by transepithelial resistance (TER) measurement. Immunostaining to cytokeratin 18 confirmed the epithelial origin of isolated cells in both primary culture and subcultures. Compared to plastic cultures, RPE increased pigmentation within 24 hr after seeding on AM, with iAM being more pronounced than dAM. RPE adopted a hexagonal epithelial phenotype with more organised pigmentation, strong expression of ZO-1 and RPE65, and a significantly higher TER 4 weeks after Ca(++) switch on dAM. Our results indicate that AM may be used as a basement membrane-containing matrix to maintain RPE phenotype in vitro, and may facilitate subsequent transplantation to treat ARMD.
Functional characterization and comparison of the outer blood-retina barrier and the blood-brain barrier.	To determine efflux systems of the outer blood-retina barrier (oBRB) and compare the oBRB with the blood-brain barrier (BBB).
Reduction of Pnn by RNAi induces loss of cell-cell adhesion between human corneal epithelial cells.	Pinin (Pnn/DRS/memA) plays an important role in regulating cell-cell adhesion of corneal epithelial cells. In the nucleus, Pnn interacts with both transcriptional repressor and pre-mRNA processing machinery. Here we investigated the consequences of "knocking down" Pnn expression with short hairpin RNAi (shRNAi) on the corneal epithelial cell phenotype.
Impact of cyclosporin on podocyte ZO-1 expression in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis rats.	Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis is a well-described model of human idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, but the mechanism of PAN's effect is not completely understood. To investigate whether proteinuria in the PAN model is associated with an alteration of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) expression within the glomeruli, and whether cyclosporin A (CsA) has an effect on proteinuria and ZO-1 expression in this model, eighteen Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were assigned into three groups. Twelve rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of PAN (15 mg/100 g). The other six rats received an equal volume of saline (normal control group; control). CsA solution was administered intraperitoneally once a day for 20 days after the PAN injection (n=6, PAN+CsA). The remaining six rats received PAN, but they didn't receive CsA (n=6, PAN). Compared to control rats (35.1+/-5.4 mg/day), the 24-hour urinary protein excretion on day 18 was significantly higher in the PAN rats (1021.9+/-128.9 mg/day, p<0.01), and the CsA treatment partly reversed the increase in proteinuria in the PAN rats (556.4+/-102.3 mg/day, p<0.05). Glomerular ZO-1 protein expressions were significantly increased in the PAN rats as compared to the control group on day 20 (176%, p<0.01). CsA treatment for 20 days in the PAN rats inhibited the increase in ZO-1 protein expression by 71.1% (p<0.05). CsA treatment significantly diminished the glomerular ZO-1 expression in the PAN rats as assessed by immunohistochemistry. CsA treatment significantly reduced proteinuria and the diminished glomerular ZO-1 expression in a PAN nephrosis rat model. These findings suggest the potential role of the slit diaphragm associated proteins in the development of the nephrotic syndrome, and CsA decreased the proteinuria probably by a direct action on the expression of these proteins in podocytes. Further investigations are needed to clarify the role of slit diaphragm associated proteins in the development of PAN nephrosis.
Localization and differential expression of two isoforms of the tight junction protein ZO-1.	ZO-1 is a peripheral membrane protein of approximately 225 kDa located on the cytoplasmic side of all tight junctions. ZO-1 cDNA sequencing disclosed the presence of a 240-bp sequence in only some of the ZO-1 cDNAs studied. This 240-bp region encoded an inframe insertion of 80 amino acids, named motif-alpha. Expression of the predicted transcripts in normal rat and human tissues and in human epithelial cell lines (Caco-2, T84, Hep G2) was shown by reverse transcription of RNA and then DNA amplification. Immunoblot analysis showed both protein isoforms were present; however, in different cell lines, their amounts differed markedly relative to each other. Immunolocalization at light and ultrastructural levels, using antibodies generated against motif-alpha or shared sequences flanking it, indicated both forms localized indistinguishably to tight junctions. These observations demonstrate the existence and variable expression of ZO-1 isoforms and raise the question whether these isoforms contribute to tight junction diversity in different epithelia.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition in colonies of rhesus monkey embryonic stem cells: a model for processes involved in gastrulation.	Rhesus monkey embryonic stem (rhES) cells were grown on mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeder layers for up to 10 days to form multilayered colonies. Within this period, stem cell colonies differentiated transiently into complex structures with a disc-like morphology. These complex colonies were characterized by morphology, immunohistochemistry, and marker mRNA expression to identify processes of epithelialization as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and pattern formation. Typically, differentiated colonies were comprised of an upper and a lower ES cell layer, the former growing on top of the layer of MEF cells whereas the lower ES cell layer spread out underneath the MEF cells. Interestingly, in the central part of the colonies, a roundish pit developed. Here the feeder layer disappeared, and upper layer cells seemed to ingress and migrate through the pit downward to form the lower layer while undergoing a transition from the epithelial to the mesenchymal phenotype, which was indicated by the loss of the marker proteins E-cadherin and ZO-1 in the lower layer. In support of this, we found a concomitant 10-fold upregulation of the gene Snail2, which is a key regulator of the EMT process. Conversion of epiblast to mesoderm was also indicated by the regulated expression of the mesoderm marker Brachyury. An EMT is a characteristic process of vertebrate gastrulation. Thus, these rhES cell colonies may be an interesting model for studies on some basic processes involved in early primate embryogenesis and may open new ways to study the regulation of EMT in vitro.
Migrating postmitotic neural precursor cells in the ventricular zone extend apical processes and form adherens junctions near the ventricle in the developing spinal cord.	Postmitotic neural precursors are generated in the ventricular zone (VZ) of the developing neural tube and immediately migrate to the mantle layer (ML) where they differentiate into mature neurons. Although the regulation of neuronal differentiation and migration has extensively been studied, the behavior of the early postmitotic precursors migrating toward the ML is largely unknown. In this study, we have identified Neph3 as a specific marker for early postmitotic neural precursors in the VZ of the developing spinal cord. Analysis of Neph3 localization by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy revealed that early neural precursors in the VZ possessed not only pia-connected processes but also ones that reached the ventricle. This apical extension of processes was confirmed by analyzing another early postmitotic marker, Dll1 mRNA, which was actively transported toward the ventricle and accumulated at the termini of the processes. Furthermore, adherens junctions (AJs) were formed around the apical end of processes extending from Neph3- and Dll1 mRNA-positive postmitotic precursors. Taken together, these observations suggest that migrating early postmitotic neural precursors in the VZ of the developing spinal cord form a neuroepithelial cell-like bipolar morphology and communicate with their neighboring cells through AJs.
Statins reduce human blood-brain barrier permeability and restrict leukocyte migration: relevance to multiple sclerosis.	Dysregulation of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and transendothelial migration of immune cells are among the earliest central nervous system changes partaking in lesion formation in both multiple sclerosis (MS) and its early clinical form, the clinically isolated syndrome. Evidence for the anti-inflammatory effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors within the central nervous system arose from studies demonstrating that statins improve clinical signs in the animal model of MS and reduce the number of gadolinium-enhancing lesions in MS.
Convergent and divergent ligand specificity among PDZ domains of the LAP and zonula occludens (ZO) families.	We present a detailed comparative analysis of the PDZ domains of the human LAP proteins Erbin, Densin-180, and Scribble and the MAGUK ZO-1. Phage-displayed peptide libraries and in vitro affinity assays were used to define ligand binding profiles for each domain. The analysis reveals the importance of interactions with all four C-terminal residues of the ligand, which constitute a core recognition motif, and also the role of interactions with more upstream ligand residues that support and modulate the core binding interaction. In particular, the results highlight the importance of site(-1), which interacts with the penultimate residue of ligand C termini. Site(-1) was found to be monospecific in the Erbin PDZ domain (accepts tryptophan only), bispecific in the first PDZ domain of ZO-1 (accepts tryptophan or tyrosine), and promiscuous in the Scribble PDZ domains. Furthermore, it appears that the level of promiscuity within site(-1) greatly influences the range of potential biological partners and functions that can be associated with each protein. These findings show that subtle changes in binding specificity can significantly alter the range of biological partners for PDZ domains, and the insights enhance our understanding of this diverse family of peptide-binding modules.
Comparative structural analysis of the Erbin PDZ domain and the first PDZ domain of ZO-1. Insights into determinants of PDZ domain specificity.	We report a structural comparison of the first PDZ domain of ZO-1 (ZO1-PDZ1) and the PDZ domain of Erbin (Erbin-PDZ). Although the binding profile of Erbin-PDZ is extremely specific ([D/E][T/S]WV(COOH)), that of ZO1-PDZ1 is similar ([R/K/S/T][T/S][W/Y][V/I/L](COOH)) but broadened by increased promiscuity for three of the last four ligand residues. Consequently, the biological function of ZO-1 is also broadened, as it interacts with both tight and adherens junction proteins, whereas Erbin is restricted to adherens junctions. Structural analyses reveal that the differences in specificity can be accounted for by two key differences in primary sequence. A reduction in the size of the hydrophobic residue at the base of the site(0) pocket enables ZO1-PDZ1 to accommodate larger C-terminal residues. A single additional difference alters the specificity of both site(-1) and site(-3). In ZO1-PDZ1, an Asp residue makes favorable interactions with both Tyr(-1) and Lys/Arg(-3). In contrast, Erbin-PDZ contains an Arg at the equivalent position, and this side chain cannot accommodate either Tyr(-1) or Lys/Arg(-3) but, instead, interacts favorably with Glu/Asp(-3). We propose a model for ligand recognition that accounts for interactions extending across the entire binding site but that highlights several key specificity switches within the PDZ domain fold.
Isolation and culture of microvascular endothelial cells from murine spinal cord.	The isolation and culture of spinal cord microvascular endothelial cells (SCMEC), which form the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB), is described. Though morphologically similar to brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC) that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB), SCMEC express reduced amounts of several prominent BBB proteins, including tight junction-associated proteins ZO-1 and occludin, adherens junction-associated proteins beta-catenin and VE-cadherin, and the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein. These distinguishing features may reflect more widespread differences between the BBB and BSCB that impact physiological and pathophysiological processes.
K+-ATP-channel-related protein complexes: potential transducers in the regulation of epithelial tight junction permeability.	K(+)-ATP channels are composed of an inwardly rectifying Kir6 subunit and an auxiliary sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) protein. The SUR subunits of Kir6 channels have been recognized as an ATPase, which appears to work as a mechanochemical device like other members of the ABC protein family. Thus, in spite of just gating ions, Kir6/Sur might, in addition, regulate completely different cellular systems. However, so far no model system was available to directly investigate this possibility. Using highly specific antibodies against Kir6.1-SUR2A and an in vitro model system of the rat small intestine, we describe a new function of the Kir6.1-SUR2A complex, namely the regulation of paracellular permeability. The Kir6.1-SUR2A complex localizes to regulated tight junctions in a variety of gastrointestinal, renal and liver tissues of rat, pig and human, whereas it is absent in the urothelium. Changes in paracellular permeability following food intake was investigated by incubating the lumen of morphological well-defined segments of rat small intestine with various amounts of glucose. Variations in the lumenal glucose concentrations and regulators of Kir6.1/SUR2A activity, such as tolbutamide or diazoxide, specifically modulate paracellular permeability. The data presented here shed new light on the physiological and pathophysiological role K(+)-ATP channels might have for the regulation of tight junctions.
The cytoplasmic domain of NrCAM binds to PDZ domains of synapse-associated proteins SAP90/PSD95 and SAP97.	NrCAM, a member of the L1 family of cell adhesion molecules, serves important functions during the development of the nervous system, e.g. in adhesion-dependent processes such as neurite outgrowth and axonal pathfinding. Complex homo- and heterophilic binding and several extracellular ligands of NrCAM have been described, but less is known about intracellular interaction partners. The cytoplasmic carboxy-terminus of NrCAM contains a typical sequence motif for binding to PDZ domains, making interactions with PDZ domain-containing scaffolding proteins quite conceivable. In this study, we identified specific interactions of the intracellular domain of NrCAM with class I PDZ domains of the membrane-associated guanylate kinases SAP90/PSD95 and SAP97. In contrast to NrCAM, the intracellular domains of the other mammalian L1 family molecules, e.g. L1, CHL1 and Neurofascin, did not interact with these PDZ domains. In transfected COS-7 cells, NrCAM-mediated recruitment of SAP97 to the plasma membrane was dependent on the PDZ binding motif. We show that NrCAM and SAP97 are colocalized, e.g. within photoreceptor terminals of the mammalian retina. In summary, our results confirm a functional PDZ domain binding motif at the carboxy-terminus of NrCAM and support potential functions of NrCAM during the assembly of highly organized protein complexes at the cell membrane.
Exogenous expression of claudin-5 induces barrier properties in cultured rat brain capillary endothelial cells.	Claudins are thought to be major components of tight junctions (TJs), and claudin-5 and -12 are localized at TJs of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Claudin-5-deficient mice exhibit size-selective (<800 Da) opening of the BBB. The purpose of this study was to clarify the expression levels of claudin-5 and -12 in rat brain capillary endothelial cells, and to examine the ability of claudin-5 to form TJs in cultured rat brain capillary endothelial cells (TR-BBB). Expression of claudin-5 mRNA in rat brain capillary fraction was 751-fold greater than that of claudin-12. The level of claudin-5 mRNA in the rat brain capillary fraction (per total mRNA) was 35.6-fold greater than that in whole brain, while the level of claudin-12 mRNA was only 13.9% of that in whole brain, suggesting that expression of claudin-12 mRNA is not restricted to brain capillaries. Transfection of TR-BBB cells with the claudin-5 gene afforded TR-BBB/CLD5 cells, which showed no change in expression of claudin-12 or ZO-1, while the expressed claudin-5 was detected at the cell-cell boundaries. The permeability surface product of [(14)C]inulin at a TR-BBB/CLD5 cell monolayer was significantly smaller (P < 0.01) than that for the parental TR-BBB cells, and the values of the permeability coefficient (Pe) were 1.14 x 10(-3) and 11.6 x 10(-3) cm/min, respectively. These results indicate that claudin-5, but not claudin-12, is predominantly expressed in brain capillaries, and plays a key role in the appearance of barrier properties of brain capillary endothelial cells.
Examination of the restoration of epithelial barrier function following superficial keratectomy.	The goal of the present study was to determine the rate of restoration of the corneal epithelial barrier following a superficial keratectomy using a functional assay of tight junction integrity. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and a 3-mm superficial keratectomy was performed. The eyes were allowed to heal from 4 h to 8 weeks and the rate of epithelial wound closure was determined. To examine the restoration of the barrier function, EZ-Link Sulfo-NHS-LC-Biotin (LC-Biotin) was applied to all eyes, experimental and control, for 15 min at the time of sacrifice. This compound does not penetrate through intact tight junctions. Indirect immunofluorescence was performed with anti-laminin, a marker of basement membrane; fluorescein-conjugated streptavidin to detect the biotinylated marker; and anti-occludin and anti-ZO-1, markers of tight junctions. Epithelial wound closure was observed at 36-42 h after wounding. LC-Biotin did not penetrate the intact epithelium. Upon wounding, LC-Biotin penetrated into the stroma subjacent and slightly peripheral to the wound area. This pattern was present from 4-48 h post-wounding. The area of LC-Biotin localization decreased with time and the functional barrier was restored by 72 h. Occludin and ZO-1 were present at all time points. The number of cell layers expressing these proteins appeared to increase at 48 and 72 h. Continuous laminin localization was not observed until at least 7 days after wounding. Barrier function is restored within 1-1.5 days after epithelial wound closure. The loss of barrier function does not extend beyond the edge of the original wound. The restoration of barrier function does not appear to correlate with reassembly of the basement membrane in this model.
Increased blood-brain barrier permeability and altered tight junctions in experimental diabetes in the rat: contribution of hyperglycaemia and matrix metalloproteinases.	Although diabetes mellitus is associated with peripheral microvascular complications and increased risk of neurological events, the mechanisms by which diabetes disrupts the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are not known. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity is increased in diabetic patients, is associated with degradation of tight junction proteins, and is a known mediator of BBB compromise. We hypothesise that diabetes leads to compromise of BBB tight junctions via stimulation of MMP activity.
ZO-1 is required for protein kinase C gamma-driven disassembly of connexin 43.	We have previously reported that protein kinase C gamma (PKC-gamma) is activated by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (TPA) and that this causes PKC-gamma translocation to membranes and phosphorylation of the gap junction protein, connexin 43 (Cx43). This phosphorylation, on S368 of Cx43, causes disassembly of Cx43 out of cell junctional plaques resulting in the inhibition of dye transfer. The purpose of this study is to identify the specific role of zonula occludens protein-1 (ZO-1), a tight junction protein with recently established effects on gap junctions, in this PKC-gamma-driven Cx43 disassembly. For this purpose, ZO-1 levels in lens epithelial cells in culture were decreased by up to 70% using specific siRNA. The down-regulation of ZO-1 caused a stable interaction of PKC-gamma with Cx43 even without normal enzyme activation by TPA. However, after TPA activation of the PKC-gamma, the Cx43 did not disassemble out of plaques even though the PKC-gamma enzyme was activated and the Cx43 was phosphorylated on S368. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that the siRNA treatment caused a loss of ZO-1 from borders of large junctional Cx43 cell-to-cell plaques and resulted in the accumulation of Cx43 aggregates inside of cells. Loss of the specific "plaquetosome" arrangement of large Cx43 plaques surrounded by ZO-1 was accompanied by a complete loss of functional dye transfer. These results suggest that ZO-1 is required for Cx43 control, both for dye transfer, and, for the PKC-gamma-driven disassembly response.
Enhanced tight junction function in human breast cancer cells by antioxidant, selenium and polyunsaturated lipid.	Paracellular permeability (PCP) is governed by tight junctions (TJs) in epithelial cells, acting as cell-cell adhesion structures, the aberration of which is known to be linked to the dissociation and metastasis of breast cancer cells. This study hypothesized that the function of TJs in human breast cancer cells can be augmented by gamma linolenic acid (GLA), selenium (Se), and iodine (I) in the presence of 17-beta-estradiol, as these molecules are known to increase TJ functions in endothelial cells, using assays of trans-epithelial resistance (TER), PCP, immunofluorescence, and in vitro invasion and motility models. GLA, I, and Se individually increased TER of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. The combination of all three agents also had a significant increase in TER. Addition of GLA/Se/I reduced PCP of both breast cancer cell lines. GLA/Se/I reversed the effect of 17-beta-estradiol (reduced TER, increased PCP). Immunofluorescence revealed that after treatment with Se/I/GLA over 24 h, there was increasing relocation to breast cancer cell-cell junctions of occludin and ZO-1 in MCF-7 cells. Moreover, treatment with GLA/Se/I, alone or in combination, significantly reduced in vitro invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells through an endothelial cell barrier (P < 0.0001) and reduced 17-beta-estradiol induced breast cancer cell motility (P < 0.0001). Our previous work has demonstrated that GLA, I, and Se alone, or in combination are able to strengthen the function of TJs in human endothelial cells; this has now proved to be true of human breast cancer cells. This combination also completely reversed the effect of 17-beta-estradiol in these cells.
Four-dimensional imaging of filter-grown polarized epithelial cells.	Understanding how epithelial cells generate and maintain polarity and function requires live cell imaging. In order for cells to become fully polarized, it is necessary to grow them on a permeable membrane filter; however, the translucent filter obstructs the microscope light path required for quantitative live cell imaging. Alternatively, the membrane filter may be excised but this eliminates selective access to apical and basolateral surfaces. Conversely, epithelial cells cultured directly on glass exhibit different phenotypes and functions from filter grown cells. Here, we describe a new method for culturing polarized epithelial cells on a Transwell filter insert that allows superior live cell imaging with spatial and temporal image resolution previously unachievable using conventional methods. Cells were cultured on the underside of a filter support. Epithelial cells grown in this inverted configuration exhibit a fully polarized architecture, including the presence of functional tight junctions. This new culturing system permits four-dimensional (three spatial dimension over time) imaging of endosome and Golgi apparatus dynamics, and permits selective manipulation of the apical and basolateral surfaces. This new technique has wide applicability for visualization and manipulation of polarized epithelial cells.
Differentiation restricted endocytosis of cell penetrating peptides in MDCK cells corresponds with activities of Rho-GTPases.	Cellular entry of biomacromolecules is restricted by the barrier function of cell membranes. Tethering such molecules to cell penetrating peptides (CPPs) that can translocate cell membranes has opened new horizons in biomedical research. Here, we investigate the cellular internalization of hCT(9-32)-br, a human calcitonin derived branched CPP, and SAP, a gamma-zein related sequence.
A hypothetical mechanism of intraepidermal neurite formation in NC/Nga mice with atopic dermatitis.	Pruritus is a symptom in atopic dermatitis (AD). Previous studies have reported that increased intraepidermal neurites are observed in AD, suggesting that the neuritogenesis is related to itching in the skin.
Requirement of ZO-1 for the formation of belt-like adherens junctions during epithelial cell polarization.	The molecular mechanisms of how primordial adherens junctions (AJs) evolve into spatially separated belt-like AJs and tight junctions (TJs) during epithelial polarization are not well understood. Previously, we reported the establishment of ZO-1/ZO-2-deficient cultured epithelial cells (1[ko]/2[kd] cells), which lacked TJs completely. In the present study, we found that the formation of belt-like AJs was significantly delayed in 1(ko)/2(kd) cells during epithelial polarization. The activation of Rac1 upon primordial AJ formation is severely impaired in 1(ko)/2(kd) cells. Our data indicate that ZO-1 plays crucial roles not only in TJ formation, but also in the conversion from "fibroblastic" AJs to belt-like "polarized epithelial" AJs through Rac1 activation. Furthermore, to examine whether ZO-1 itself mediate belt-like AJ and TJ formation, respectively, we performed a mutational analysis of ZO-1. The requirement for ZO-1 differs between belt-like AJ and TJ formation. We propose that ZO-1 is directly involved in the establishment of two distinct junctional domains, belt-like AJs and TJs, during epithelial polarization.
The control of tissue architecture over nuclear organization is crucial for epithelial cell fate.	The remodeling of nuclear organization during differentiation and the dramatic alteration of nuclear organization associated with cancer development are well documented. However, the importance of tissue architecture in the control of nuclear organization remains to be determined. Differentiation of mammary epithelial cells into functional tissue structures, in three-dimensional culture, is characterized by a specific tissue architecture (i.e. a basoapical polarity axis), cell cycle exit and maintenance of cell survival. Here we show that induction of partial differentiation (i.e. basal polarity only, cell cycle exit and cell survival) by epigenetic mechanisms in malignant breast cells is sufficient to restore features of differentiation-specific nuclear organization, including perinucleolar heterochromatin, large splicing factor speckles, and distinct nuclear mitotic apparatus protein (NuMA) foci. Upon alteration of nuclear organization using an antibody against NuMA, differentiated non-neoplastic cells undergo apoptosis, whereas partially differentiated malignant cells enter the cell cycle. Non-neoplastic cells cultured under conditions that prevent the establishment of apical polarity also enter the cell cycle upon NuMA antibody treatment. These findings demonstrate that the differentiation status rather than the non-neoplastic or neoplastic origin of cells controls nuclear organization and suggest a link between nuclear organization and epigenetic mechanisms dictated by tissue architecture for the control of cell behavior.
Loss of the tight junction protein ZO-1 in dextran sulfate sodium induced colitis.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is associated with increased intestinal permeability and decreased expression of tight junction (TJ) proteins in the inflamed mucosa. Whether this alteration in TJ expression is a prerequisite for the development of intestinal inflammation or a secondary result of that inflammation is unknown. This study looked at the expression of the TJ protein ZO-1 and the corresponding permeability changes in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) induced colitis in a mouse model.
Early lead exposure increases the leakage of the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier, in vitro.	The cell type constructing the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCB) is entirely different, ie, endothelia in BBB and epithelia in BCB. Nonetheless, both barriers share a common character--the tight junctions (TJ) between adjacent cells. This study investigated the consequence of lead (Pb) exposure on the tightness of BCB. In an in vitro BCB transwell model, using immortalized choroidal epithelial Z310 cells, we found that early exposure to Pb (prior to the formation of tight barrier) at 5 and 10 microM, significantly reduced the tightness of BCB, as evidenced by a 20% reduction in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) values (P <0.05), and >20% increase in the paracellular permeability of [(14)C]sucrose (P <0.05). Exposure to Pb after the formation of tight barrier, however, did not cause any detectable barrier dysfunction. RT-PCR and Western blot analyses on typical TJ proteins revealed that Pb exposure decreased both the mRNA and protein levels of claudin-1, with the membrane-bound claudin-1 more profoundly affected than cytosolic claudin-1. Pb exposure, however, had no significant effect on ZO1 and occludin. These data suggest that Pb exposure selectively alters the cellular level of claudin-1, which, in turn, reduces the tightness and augments the permeability of tight blood-CSF barrier. The immature barrier appears to be more vulnerable to Pb toxicity than the mature, well-developed, brain barrier, the fact possibly contributing to Pb-induced neurotoxicity among young children.
Localization of ZO-1 in the nucleolus of corneal fibroblasts.	Within the multidomain structure of ZO-1 are motifs responsible for ZO-1's localization to intercellular junctions and its newly demonstrated localization to the leading edge of lamellipodia in corneal fibroblasts. Since ZO-1 also has two nuclear localization signals, this study was undertaken to determine whether stimuli associated with wounding would induce nuclear translocation of ZO-1
Helicobacter pylori-induced inhibition of vascular endothelial cell functions: a role for VacA-dependent nitric oxide reduction.	Epidemiological and clinical studies provide compelling support for a causal relationship between Helicobacter pylori infection and endothelial dysfunction, leading to vascular diseases. However, clear biochemical evidence for this association is limited. In the present study, we have conducted a comprehensive investigation of endothelial injury in bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) induced by H. pylori-conditioned medium (HPCM) prepared from H. pylori 60190 [vacuolating cytotoxin A (Vac(+))]. BAECs were treated with either unconditioned media, HPCM (0-25% vol/vol), or Escherichia coli-conditioned media for 24 h, and cell functions were monitored. Vac(+) HPCM significantly decreased BAEC proliferation, tube formation, and migration (by up to 44%, 65%, and 28%, respectively). Posttreatment, we also observed sporadic zonnula occludens-1 immunolocalization along the cell-cell border, and increased BAEC permeability to FD40 Dextran, indicating barrier reduction. These effects were blocked by 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid (VacA inhibitor) and were not observed with conditioned media prepared from either VacA-deleted H. pylori or E. coli. The cellular mechanism mediating these events was also considered. Vac(+) HPCM (but not Vac(-)) reduced nitric oxide (NO) by >50%, whereas S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, an NO donor, recovered all Vac(+) HPCM-dependent effects on cell functions. We further demonstrated that laminar shear stress, an endothelial NO synthase/NO stimulus in vivo, could also recover the Vac(+) HPCM-induced decreases in BAEC functions. This study shows, for the first time, a significant proatherogenic effect of H. pylori-secreted factors on a range of vascular endothelial dysfunction markers. Specifically, the VacA-dependent reduction in endothelial NO is indicated in these events. The atheroprotective impact of laminar shear stress in this context is also evident.
Cultivation of an immortalized human corneal endothelial cell population and two distinct clonal subpopulations on thermo-responsive carriers.	Recently, it was possible to show that human corneal endothelial cells (HCEC) can be cultured on thermo-responsive polymer substrates, and can be harvested as entire cell sheets without losing viability. We sought to study HCEC sheet cultivation on such cell culture carriers under serum-free conditions as the next consequential step in developing methods for generation of corneal endothelial cell transplants.
The keratin-binding protein Albatross regulates polarization of epithelial cells.	The keratin intermediate filament network is abundant in epithelial cells, but its function in the establishment and maintenance of cell polarity is unclear. Here, we show that Albatross complexes with Par3 to regulate formation of the apical junctional complex (AJC) and maintain lateral membrane identity. In nonpolarized epithelial cells, Albatross localizes with keratin filaments, whereas in polarized epithelial cells, Albatross is primarily localized in the vicinity of the AJC. Knockdown of Albatross in polarized cells causes a disappearance of key components of the AJC at cell-cell borders and keratin filament reorganization. Lateral proteins E-cadherin and desmoglein 2 were mislocalized even on the apical side. Although Albatross promotes localization of Par3 to the AJC, Par3 and ezrin are still retained at the apical surface in Albatross knockdown cells, which retain intact microvilli. Analysis of keratin-deficient epithelial cells revealed that keratins are required to stabilize the Albatross protein, thus promoting the formation of AJC. We propose that keratins and the keratin-binding protein Albatross are important for epithelial cell polarization.
Ultrastructure and fluid flow physiology of fetal trabecular meshwork cells.	To assess the ultrastructural and fluid flow characteristics of cultured trabecular meshwork (TM) cells derived from fetal sources.
Effects of cardiopulmonary bypass on tight junction protein expressions in intestinal mucosa of rats.	To investigate the tight junction protein expressions of intestinal mucosa in an experimental model of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in rats.
Traumatic brain injury and intestinal dysfunction: uncovering the neuro-enteric axis.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can lead to several physiologic complications including gastrointestinal dysfunction. Specifically, TBI can induce an increase in intestinal permeability, which may lead to bacterial translocation, sepsis, and eventually multi-system organ failure. However, the exact mechanism of increased intestinal permeability following TBI is unknown. We hypothesized that expression of tight junction protein ZO-1 and occludin, responsible for intestinal architectural and functional integrity, will decrease following TBI and increase intestinal permeability. BALB/c mice underwent a weight drop TBI model following anesthesia. Brain injury was confirmed by a neurologic assessment and gross brain pathology. Six hours following injury, FITC-dextran (25 mg 4.4 kDa FITC-dextran) was injected into the intact lumen of the isolated ileum. Intestinal permeability was measured in plasma 30 min following injection, by using spectrophotometry to determine plasma FITC-dextran concentrations. Whole ileum extracts were used to measure expression of tight junction proteins ZO-1 and occludin by Western blot. TBI caused a significant increase in intestinal permeability (110.0 microg/mL +/-22.2) compared to sham animals (29.4 microg/mL +/- 9.7) 6 h after injury (p = 0.016). Expression of ZO-1 was decreased by 49% relative to sham animals (p < 0.02), whereas expression of occludin was decreased by 73% relative to sham animals (p < 0.001). An increase in intestinal permeability corresponds with decreased expression of tight junction proteins ZO-1 and occludin following TBI. Expression of intestinal tight junction proteins may be an important factor in gastrointestinal dysfunction following brain injury.
Association of FAK activation with lentivirus-induced disruption of blood-brain barrier tight junction-associated ZO-1 protein organization.	Expression of tight junction proteins between brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs) of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is lost during development of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) encephalitis (HIVE). Although many studies have focused on the strains of virus that induce neurological sequelae or on the macrophages/microglia that are associated with development of encephalitis, the molecular signaling pathways within the BMECs involved have yet to be resolved. We have previously shown that there is activation and disruption of an in vitro BBB model using lentivirus-infected CEMx174 cells. We and others have shown similar disruption in vivo. Therefore, it was of interest to determine if the presence of infected cells could disrupt intact cerebral microvessels immediately ex vivo, and if so, which signaling pathways were involved. The present data demonstrate that disruption of tight junctions between BMECs is mediated through activation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) by phosphorylation at TYR-397. Inhibition of FAK activation is sufficient to prevent tight junction disruption. Thus, it may be possible to inhibit the development of HIVE by using inhibitors of FAK.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide ameliorates intestinal barrier disruption associated with Citrobacter rodentium-induced colitis.	Attaching and effacing bacterial pathogens attach to the apical surface of epithelial cells and disrupt epithelial barrier function, increasing permeability and allowing luminal contents access to the underlying milieu. Previous in vitro studies demonstrated that the neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) regulates epithelial paracellular permeability, and the high concentrations and close proximity of VIP-containing nerve fibers to intestinal epithelial cells would support such a function in vivo. The aim of this study was to examine whether VIP treatment modulated Citrobacter rodentium-induced disruption of intestinal barrier integrity and to identify potential mechanisms of action. Administration of VIP had no effect on bacterial attachment although histopathological scoring demonstrated a VIP-induced amelioration of colitis-induced epithelial damage compared with controls. VIP treatment prevented the infection-induced increase in mannitol flux a measure of paracellular permeability, resulting in levels similar to control mice, and immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that VIP prevented the translocation of tight junction proteins: zonula occludens-1, occludin, and claudin-3. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) infection of Caco-2 monolayers confirmed a protective role for VIP on epithelial barrier function. VIP prevented EPEC-induced increase in long myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) expression and myosin light chain phosphorylation (p-MLC). Furthermore, MLCK inhibition significantly attenuated bacterial-induced epithelial damage both in vivo and in vitro. In conclusion, our results indicate that VIP protects the colonic epithelial barrier by minimizing bacterial-induced redistribution of tight junction proteins in part through actions on MLCK and MLC phosphorylation.
Extracellular Mg(2+) regulates the tight junctional localization of claudin-16 mediated by ERK-dependent phosphorylation.	Claudin-16 is involved in the paracellular reabsorption of Mg(2+) in the thick ascending limb of Henle. Little is known about the mechanism regulating the tight junctional localization of claudin-16. Here, we examined the effect of Mg(2+) deprivation on the distribution and function of claudin-16 using Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells expressing FLAG-tagged claudin-16. Mg(2+) deprivation inhibited the localization of claudin-16 at tight junctions, but did not affect the localization of other claudins. Re-addition of Mg(2+) induced the tight junctional localization of claudin-16, which was inhibited by U0126, a MEK inhibitor. Transepithelial permeability to Mg(2+) was also inhibited by U0126. The phosphorylation of ERK was reduced by Mg(2+) deprivation, and recovered by re-addition of Mg(2+). These results suggest that the MEK/ERK-dependent phosphorylation of claudin-16 affects the tight junctional localization and function of claudin-16. Mg(2+) deprivation decreased the phosphothreonine levels of claudin-16. The phosphothreonine levels of T225A and T233A claudin-16 were decreased in the presence of Mg(2+) and these mutants were widely distributed in the plasma membrane. Furthermore, TER and transepithelial Mg(2+) permeability were decreased in the mutants. We suggest that the tight junctional localization of claudin-16 requires a physiological Mg(2+) concentration and the phosphorylation of threonine residues via a MEK/ERK-dependent pathway.
Protection of human corneal epithelial cells from hypoxia-induced disruption of barrier function by hepatocyte growth factor.	The barrier function of the corneal epithelium maintains corneal homeostasis and is mediated by tight junctions (TJs) and adherens junctions (AJs). It is also susceptible to disruption by hypoxia. We have now examined the effects of hypoxia on TJs and AJs as well as on barrier function in human corneal epithelial (HCE) cells. Moreover, we investigated whether such effects of hypoxia might be modulated by hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). The subcellular distribution of the TJ proteins ZO-1 and occludin, the AJ proteins E-cadherin and beta-catenin, and actin filaments was examined by fluorescence microscopy. The abundance of junctional proteins as well as of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) was determined by immunoblot analysis. Barrier function was evaluated by measurement of transepithelial electrical resistance (TER). Hypoxia-induced both the disappearance of ZO-1 from the borders of neighboring HCE cells as well as the down-regulation of ZO-1 expression without affecting the distribution or abundance of occludin, E-cadherin, or beta-catenin. It also induced the formation of actin stress fibers, the up-regulation of MLCK expression, and a reduction in the TER of HCE cells. All these effects of hypoxia were inhibited by HGF. Neither hypoxia nor HGF exhibited a mitogenic or cytotoxic effect on HCE cells. HGF thus protects HCE cells from hypoxia-induced disruption of barrier function by maintaining the expression and distribution of ZO-1. Inhibition of the effects of hypoxia on the organization of the actin cytoskeleton might also contribute to this protective action of HGF.
Divergent roles of prokineticin receptors in the endothelial cells: angiogenesis and fenestration.	Prokineticins are secreted peptides that activate two G protein-coupled receptors: PKR1 and PKR2. Prokineticins induce angiogenesis and fenestration, but the cognate receptors involved in these functions are unknown. We hypothesized a role for prokineticin receptor signaling pathways and expression profiles in determining the selective effects of prokineticins on coronary endothelial cells (H5V). Activation of the PKR1/MAPK/Akt signaling pathway stimulates proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis in H5V cells, in which PKR1 predominates over PKR2. PKR1 was colocalized with Galpha(11) and was internalized following the stimulation of these cells with prokineticin-2. Knock down of PKR1 or Galpha(11) expression in H5V cells effectively inhibited prokineticin-2-induced vessel formation and MAPK/Akt activation, indicating a role for PKR1/Galpha(11) in this process. However, in conditions in which PKR2 predominated over PKR1, these cells displayed a fenestrated endothelial cell phenotype. H5V cells overexpressing PKR2 displayed large numbers of multivesicular bodies and caveolar clusters and a disruption of the distribution of zonula occluden-1 tight junction protein. Prokineticin-2 induced the colocalization of PKR2 with Galpha(12), and activated Galpha(12), which bound to zonula occluden-1 to trigger the degradation of this protein in these cells. Prokineticin-2 induced the formation of vessel-like structures by human aortic endothelial cells expressing only PKR1, and disorganized the tight junctions in human hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cells expressing only PKR2, confirming the divergent roles of these receptors. Our findings show the functional characteristics of coronary endothelial cells depend on the expression of PKR1 and PKR2 levels and the divergent signaling pathways used by these receptors.
Endothelial-monocyte-activating polypeptide II increases blood-tumor barrier permeability by down-regulating the expression levels of tight junction associated proteins.	This study was performed to determine whether endothelial-monocyte-activating polypeptide (EMAP) II increases the permeability of the blood-tumor barrier (BTB) in the rat model of C6 glioma, and whether EMAP II opens the BTB by affecting tight junction (TJ) associated proteins zonula occluden-1 (ZO-1), occludin and claudin-5. The rats were divided into eight groups randomly: control group, EMAPII 0h group, EMAPII 0.5h group, EMAPII 1h group, EMAPII 2h group, EMAPII 3h group, EMAPII 6h group and EMAPII 12h group. The BTB permeability was assessed by Evans blue extravasation. The mRNA and protein expressions of ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-5 were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunohistochemistry assays. The BTB permeability significantly increased after EMAP II injection in different doses (40ng/kg, 80ng/kg and 160ng/kg). The BTB permeability started to increase from 0.5h, reached a peak at 1h, and finally returned to the level of EMAP II 0h group after EMAP II injection at dose of 80ng/kg. The mRNA and protein expression levels of ZO-1, occludin and claudin-5 were significantly decreased after EMAP II injection. This study demonstrates for the first time that EMAP II increases the permeability of BTB selectively, and the possible mechanism is associated with the down-regulation of ZO-1, occludin and claudin-5.
Differential distribution of tight junction proteins suggests a role for tanycytes in blood-hypothalamus barrier regulation in the adult mouse brain.	The median eminence is one of the seven so-called circumventricular organs. It is located in the basal hypothalamus, ventral to the third ventricle and adjacent to the arcuate nucleus. This structure characteristically contains a rich capillary plexus and features a fenestrated endothelium, making it a direct target of blood-borne molecules. The median eminence also contains highly specialized ependymal cells called tanycytes, which line the floor of the third ventricle. It has been hypothesized that one of the functions of these cells is to create a barrier that prevents substances in the portal capillary spaces from entering the brain. In this paper, we utilize immunohistochemistry to study the expression of tight junction proteins in the cells that compose the median eminence in adult mice. Our results indicate that tanycytes of the median eminence express occludin, ZO-1, and claudin 1 and 5, but not claudin 3. Remarkably, these molecules are organized as a continuous belt around the cell bodies of the tanycytes that line the ventral part of the third ventricle. In contrast, the tanycytes at the periphery of the arcuate nucleus do not express claudin 1 and instead exhibit a disorganized expression pattern of occludin, ZO-1, and claudin 5. Consistent with these observations, permeability studies using peripheral or central injections of Evans blue dye show that only the tanycytes of the median eminence are joined at their apices by functional tight junctions, whereas tanycytes located at the level of the arcuate nucleus form a permeable layer. In conclusion, this study reveals a unique expression pattern of tight junction proteins in hypothalamic tanycytes, which yields new insights into their barrier properties.
Protective effect of rebamipide against Helicobacter pylori-CagA-induced effects on gastric epithelial cells.	Helicobacter pylori CagA dysregulates cell signaling pathways and leads to targeted transcriptional up-regulation of genes implicated in gastric cell injury. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of rebamipide on CagA-induced effects on gastric epithelial cells. We investigated the effects of rebamipide treatment (pre- or post-treatment before or after CagA transfection) on CagA-induced gastric cell injury.
Tight junction-associated signaling pathways modulate cell proliferation in uveal melanoma.	To investigate the role of tight junction (TJ)-associated signaling pathways in the proliferation of uveal melanoma.
Zona occludens proteins modulate podosome formation and function.	Podosomes are highly dynamic structures that are involved in cell adhesion and extracellular matrix remodeling. They present as intracellular columns composed of an actin-rich core region and a surrounding ring-like structure containing focal adhesion proteins, actin binders as well as cell signaling molecules. A key player in podosome biogenesis is the scaffolding protein cortactin, which is thought to control actin assembly at the core region. We show that the zona occludens protein 1 (ZO-1), a pivotal tight junction protein and known binding partner of cortactin, is a component of podosomes. In the smooth muscle cell line A7r5, phorbol ester treatment induced a rapid relocation of ZO-1 from the cell cortex and cytosolic pools toward newly formed podosomes. Podosomal localization was also observed for the known ZO-1-binding proteins l-afadin, α-catenin, and phospho-connexin 43. Truncation studies revealed that the actin-binding domain but not the association with cortactin is necessary for ZO-1 recruitment to podosomes. Moreover, impaired ZO-1 expression leads to significantly reduced podosome formation and concomitant decreased matrix degradation at podosomes. Our findings demonstrate that besides their known function in tight junction assembly and intercellular communication, zona occludens proteins and their binding partners may play a novel role in podosome formation and associated function, thus regulating cell adhesion and matrix remodeling.
Assessments of tight junction proteins occludin, claudin 5 and scaffold proteins ZO1 and ZO2 in endothelial cells of the rat blood-brain barrier: cellular responses to neurotoxicants malathion and lead acetate.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for central nervous system (CNS) normal function. It is formed by endothelial cells with special characteristics, which confer the BBB with low permeability and high transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER). We previously demonstrated that malathion and lead, two neurotoxicants widely present in the environment, decrease TEER and increase permeability in in vitro models of the BBB. In this study we assessed tight junction disruption at the protein and gene expression levels using a rat brain microvascular endothelial cell line (RBE4) exposed to lead acetate at 10(-5)M and 10(-6)M, malathion at 10(-5)M, malaoxon at 10(-6)M, and their combinations. Cells were incubated with treatments for 2h, 4h, 8h, 16h, and 24h periods. Immunoblotting assessments demonstrated that protein levels of tight junction proteins occludin and claudin 5, and scaffold proteins ZO1 and ZO2 were decreased after treatments. Gene expression determinations did not correlate with the decreases in protein, indicating that the effects on these proteins were post-translational.
Ambient particulate matter affects occludin distribution and increases alveolar transepithelial electrical conductance.	Inhaled particulate matter (PM) causes lung inflammation and epithelial dysfunction. However, the direct effect of PM on alveolar epithelial barrier integrity is not well understood. Our aim is to determine whether PM exposure affects the alveolar epithelial cells (AEC) transepithelial electrical conductance (Gt) and tight junction (TJ) proteins.
Altered expression of tight junction proteins in cyclosporine nephrotoxicity.	The increased permeability of chloride in the distal cortical nephron in cyclosporine nephrotoxicity may involve the transcellular pathway mediated by the thiazide-sensitive Na(+)-Cl⁻ cotransporter and/or the paracellular pathway mediated by the tight junctions (TJs).
ZO-1 determines adherens and gap junction localization at intercalated disks.	The disruption of the spatial order of electromechanical junctions at myocyte-intercalated disks (ICDs) is a poorly understood characteristic of many cardiac disease states. Here, in vitro and in vivo evidence is provided that zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) regulates the organization of gap junctions (GJs) and adherens junctions (AJs) at ICDs. We investigated the contribution of ZO-1 to cell-cell junction localization by expressing a dominant-negative ZO-1 construct (DN-ZO-1) in rat ventricular myocytes (VMs). The expression of DN-ZO-1 in cultured neonatal VMs for 72 h reduced the interaction of ZO-1 and N-cadherin, as assayed by colocalization and coimmunoprecipitation, prompting cytoplasmic internalization of AJ and GJ proteins. DN-ZO-1 expression in adult VMs in vivo also reduced N-cadherin colocalization with ZO-1, a phenomenon not observed when the connexin-43 (Cx43)-ZO-1 interaction was disrupted using a mimetic of the ZO-1-binding ligand from Cx43. DN-ZO-1-infected VMs demonstrated large GJs at the ICD periphery and showed a loss of focal ZO-1 concentrations along plaque edges facing the disk interior. Additionally, there was breakdown of the characteristic ICD pattern of small interior and large peripheral GJs. Continuous DN-ZO-1 expression in VMs over postnatal development reduced ICD-associated Cx43 GJs and increased lateralized and cytoplasmic Cx43. We conclude that ZO-1 regulation of GJ localization is via an association with the N-cadherin multiprotein complex and that this is a key determinant of stable localization of both AJs and GJs at the ICD.
In vitro culture of human fetal corneal endothelial cells.	To explore and optimize a proper culture system for human fetal corneal endothelial cells (hFCECs), including the methods of primary culture, passage and cryopreservation.
Presence of xenogenic mouse RNA in RPE and IPE cells cultured on mitotically inhibited 3T3 fibroblasts.	Mitotically inhibited 3T3 fibroblasts are used as feeder layers to culture a variety of cells. However, transplantation of human cells cultured on mitotically arrested mouse cells poses potential risks, such as disease transfer and contamination with 3T3 cells. Bovine RPE and IPE cells were cultured on mitomycin-treated 3T3 fibroblasts, to examine cell characteristics and contamination by 3T3 products.
Raised intensity phonation compromises vocal fold epithelial barrier integrity.	We investigated the hypothesis that 30 minutes of raised intensity phonation alters transcript levels of vocal fold intercellular tight junction proteins and disrupts the vocal fold epithelial barrier.
Amyloid Beta induces oxidative stress-mediated blood-brain barrier changes in capillary amyloid angiopathy.	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is frequently observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is characterized by deposition of amyloid beta (Aβ) in leptomeningeal and cortical brain vasculature. In 40% of AD cases, Aβ mainly accumulates in cortical capillaries, a phenomenon referred to as capillary CAA (capCAA). The aim of this study was to investigate blood-brain barrier (BBB) alterations in CAA-affected capillaries with the emphasis on tight junction (TJ) changes. First, capCAA brain tissue was analyzed for the distribution of TJs. Here, we show for the first time a dramatic loss of occludin, claudin-5, and ZO-1 in Aβ-laden capillaries surrounded by NADPH oxidase-2 (NOX-2)-positive activated microglia. Importantly, we observed abundant vascular expression of the Aβ transporter receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE). To unravel the underlying mechanism, a human brain endothelial cell line was stimulated with Aβ1-42 to analyze the effects of Aβ. We observed a dose-dependent cytotoxicity and increased ROS generation, which interestingly was reversed by administration of exogenous antioxidants, NOX-2 inhibitors, and by blocking RAGE. Taken together, our data evidently show that Aβ is toxic to brain endothelial cells via binding to RAGE and induction of ROS production, which ultimately leads to disruption of TJs and loss of BBB integrity.
Protective effect of dexamethasone against hypoxia-induced disruption of barrier function in human corneal epithelial cells.	The corneal epithelium functions as a barrier to protect the cornea from external agents such as infectious organisms and toxins and thereby contributes to corneal homeostasis. The barrier function of epithelia is dependent on the formation of tight and adherens junctions between adjacent epithelial cells. We have previously shown that hypoxia disrupts the barrier function of cultured human corneal epithelial (HCE) cells by affecting tight junctions. We have now examined the effect of dexamethasone on this barrier disruption induced by hypoxia in HCE cells. Measurement of transepithelial electrical resistance revealed that the hypoxia-induced decrease in the barrier function of HCE cells was inhibited by dexamethasone in a concentration-dependent manner. The hypoxia-induced loss of the tight junction protein ZO-1 from the borders of adjacent HCE cells (as revealed by immunofluorescence analysis) as well as the hypoxia-induced down-regulation of ZO-1 expression (as revealed by immunoblot analysis) were also inhibited by dexamethasone, whereas this drug had no effect on the expression or distribution of the tight junction protein occludin or of the adherens junction proteins E-cadherin and β-catenin. Moreover, dexamethasone attenuated the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, the formation of focal adhesions, and the up-regulation of myosin light chain kinase expression induced by hypoxia in HCE cells. Our results thus suggest that dexamethasone protects corneal epithelial cells from the hypoxia-induced disruption of barrier function by maintaining the distribution and expression of ZO-1 as well as the organization of the actin cytoskeleton.
Glial cells drive preconditioning-induced blood-brain barrier protection.	The cerebrovascular contribution to ischemic preconditioning (IPC) has been scarcely explored. Using in vivo and in vitro approaches, we investigated the involvement of the blood-brain barrier and the role of its cellular components.
Truncation of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 by plasmin promotes blood-brain barrier disruption.	Previous studies have shown that plasmin cleaves monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP1; officially known as C-C motif chemokine 2, CCL2) at K104, and this cleavage enhances its chemotactic potency significantly. Accumulating evidence reveals that MCP1 also disrupts the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Here, we show that K104Stop-MCP1, truncated at the K104 where plasmin would normally cleave, is more efficient than the full-length protein (FL-MCP1) in compromising the integrity of the BBB in in vitro and in vivo models. K104Stop-MCP1 increases the permeability of BBB in both wild-type mice and mice deficient for tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), which converts plasminogen into active plasmin, suggesting that plasmin-mediated truncation of MCP1 plays an important role in BBB compromise. Furthermore, we show that the mechanisms underlying MCP1-induced BBB disruption involve redistribution of tight junction proteins (occludin and ZO-1) and reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Finally, we show that the redistribution of ZO-1 is mediated by phosphorylation of ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM) proteins. These findings identify plasmin as a key signaling molecule in the regulation of BBB integrity and suggest that plasmin inhibitors might be used to modulate diseases accompanied by BBB compromise.
Association between adherens junctions and tight junctions via Rap1 promotes barrier protective effects of oxidized phospholipids.	Previous studies showed that cyclopenthenone-containing products resulting from oxidation of a natural phospholipid, 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (OxPAPC) exhibit potent barrier-protective effects in the in vitro and in vivo models of lung endothelial cell (EC) barrier dysfunction, and these effects are associated with enhancement of peripheral actin cytoskeleton, cell-cell and cell-substrate contacts driven by activation of Rac and Cdc42 GTPases. Rap1 GTPase is another member of small GTPase family involved in control of cell-cell interactions; however, its involvement in EC barrier-protective effects by OxPAPC remains unknown. This study examined a role of Rap1 in regulation of OxPAPC-induced interactions in adherens junctions (AJ) and tight junctions (TJ) as a novel mechanism of EC barrier preservation in vitro and in vivo. Immunofluorescence analysis, subcellular fractionation, and co-immunoprecipitation assays indicate that OxPAPC promoted accumulation of AJ proteins: VE-cadherin, p120-catenin, and β-catenin; and TJ proteins: ZO-1, occludin, and JAM-A in the cell membrane, and induced novel cross-interactions between AJ and TJ protein complexes, that were dependent on OxPAPC-induced Rap1 activation. Inhibition of Rap1 function suppressed OxPAPC-mediated pulmonary EC barrier enhancement and AJ and TJ interactions in vitro, as well as inhibited protective effects of OxPAPC against ventilator-induced lung injury in vivo. These results show for the first time a role of Rap1-mediated association between adherens junctions and tight junction complexes in the OxPAPC-induced pulmonary vascular EC barrier protection.
Mature peripheral RPE cells have an intrinsic capacity to proliferate; a potential regulatory mechanism for age-related cell loss.	Mammalian peripheral retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) cells proliferate throughout life, while central cells are senescent. It is thought that some peripheral cells migrate centrally to correct age-related central RPE loss.
Correlation between the destruction of tight junction by patulin treatment and increase of phosphorylation of ZO-1 in Caco-2 human colon cancer cells.	Patulin is a mycotoxin and its contamination of food has been reported to cause gastrointestinal inflammation, ulcers, and bleeding. The toxicity of patulin is thought to be due to the destruction of tight junctions (TJs) in gastrointestinal tissues. However, the precise mechanism has not been clarified. Here, we investigated the phosphorylation of TJ components. The transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) of Caco-2 human colon cancer cells decreased gradually during the first 24h of treatment with 50μM patulin. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed that the TJ proteins ZO-1 and claudin-4, but not occludin, had decreased after 24h and decreased from the cell-cell contact regions of TJs after 48h of patulin treatment. Western blotting showed that the level of ZO-1 decreased after 48h of patulin treatment, but the levels of claudin-4 and occludin remained at the initial level until 72h. Phosphorylation of ZO-1 was detected by 24h and increased markedly after 72h of patulin treatment. However, phosphorylation of claudin-4 and occludin was not detected by probing with anti-phosphotyrosine antibody. Immunoprecipitation showed that interaction of ZO-1 with claudin-4 had decreased after 48h and was completely absent after 72h. These results suggest that phosphorylation caused the degradation of ZO-1 protein and the decrease in TER induced by patulin treatment of Caco-2 cells.
Epileptiform activity induces vascular remodeling and zonula occludens 1 downregulation in organotypic hippocampal cultures: role of VEGF signaling pathways.	Recent studies suggest that blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability contributes to epileptogenesis in symptomatic epilepsies. We have previously described angiogenesis, aberrant vascularization, and BBB alteration in drug-refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. Here, we investigated the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in an in vitro integrative model of vascular remodeling induced by epileptiform activity in rat organotypic hippocampal cultures. After kainate-induced seizure-like events (SLEs), we observed an overexpression of VEGF and VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) as well as receptor activation. Vascular density and branching were significantly increased, whereas zonula occludens 1 (ZO-1), a key protein of tight junctions (TJs), was downregulated. These effects were fully prevented by VEGF neutralization. Using selective inhibitors of VEGFR-2 signaling pathways, we found that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is involved in cell survival, protein kinase C (PKC) in vascularization, and Src in ZO-1 regulation. Recombinant VEGF reproduced the kainate-induced vascular changes. As in the kainate model, VEGFR-2 and Src were involved in ZO-1 downregulation. These results showed that VEGF/VEGFR-2 initiates the vascular remodeling induced by SLEs and pointed out the roles of PKC in vascularization and Src in TJ dysfunction, respectively. This suggests that Src pathway could be a therapeutic target for BBB protection in epilepsies.
Peripheral nerve injury alters blood-spinal cord barrier functional and molecular integrity through a selective inflammatory pathway.	Peripheral nerve lesion triggers alterations in the spinal microenvironment that contribute to the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. While neurons and glia have been implicated in these functional changes, it remains largely underexplored whether the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) is also involved. The BSCB is an important component in the CNS homeostasis, and compromised BSCB has been associated with different pathologies affecting the spinal cord. Here, we demonstrated that a remote injury on the peripheral nerve in rats triggered a leakage of the BSCB, which was independent of spinal microglial activation. The increase of BSCB permeability to different size tracers, such as Evans Blue and sodium fluorescein, was restricted to the lumbar spinal cord and prominent for at least 4 weeks after injury. The spinal inflammatory reaction triggered by nerve injury was a key player in modulating BSCB permeability. We identified MCP-1 as an endogenous trigger for the BSCB leakage. BSCB permeability can also be impaired by circulating IL-1β. In contrast, antiinflammatory cytokines TGF-β1 and IL-10 were able to shut down the openings of the BSCB following nerve injury. Peripheral nerve injury caused a decrease in tight junction and caveolae-associated proteins. Interestingly, ZO-1 and occludin, but not caveolin-1, were rescued by TGF-β1. Furthermore, our data provide direct evidence that disrupted BSCB following nerve injury contributed to the influx of inflammatory mediators and the recruitment of spinal blood borne monocytes/macrophages, which played a major role in the development of neuropathic pain. These findings highlight the importance of inflammation in BSCB integrity and in spinal cord homeostasis.
Inhibition of claudin-11 and occludin expression in rat Sertoli cells by mono-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate through p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway.	Our objectives were to evaluate the effects of mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate  (MEHP) on tight junctions (TJ) in cultured rat Sertoli cells (SC) and to  investigate changes in the signal transduction pathways in SCs following MEHP  treatment. SCs were isolated and purified from the testes of 18-day-old  Sprague Dawley rats and incubated at 34°C for 3 days. After treatment of  SCs with either the vehicle or MEHP for 0.5, 1, 3, 6 and 24 hours, whole cell  lysates were isolated from each replicate to prepare RNA and protein.  Expression levels of claudin-11, occludin, and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) mRNA  were evaluated by quantitative real-time reverse  transcription-polymerase chain reaction and changes in signal  transduction pathways possibly induced by MEHP treatment were assessed by  Western blot analyses. MEHP treatment led to significant decreases in the  expression of claudin-11 and occludin mRNA, but not that of ZO-1, in rat SCs.  Exposure of rat SCs to MEHP resulted in the marked induction of phosphorylated  p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), whereas other pathways  examined in this study were not activated by MEHP. Furthermore, treatment of  rat SCs with a specific inhibitor of p44/42 MAPK prevented the MEHP-induced  down-regulation of claudin-11 and occludin. These findings demonstrate that  MEHP exposure inhibited the expression of claudin-11 and occludin mRNA in rat  SCs through the p44/42 MAPK pathway, suggesting the possible involvement of  MEHP in spermatogenic function by regulating major components of TJs in  SCs.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 in homocysteine-induced intestinal microvascular endothelial paracellular and transcellular permeability.	Although elevated levels of homocysteine (Hcy), known as hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy), is associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the mechanism of Hcy action is unclear. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that HHcy activates matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which in turn enhances permeability of human intestinal microvascular endothelial cell (HIMEC) layer by decreasing expression of endothelial junction proteins and increasing caveolae formation. HIMECs were grown in Transwells and treated with 500 µM Hcy in the presence or absence of MMP-9 activity inhibitor. Hcy-induced permeability to FITC-conjugated bovine serum albumin (FITC-BSA) was assessed by measuring fluorescence intensity of solutes in the Transwells' lower chambers. The cell-cell interaction and cell barrier function was estimated by measuring trans-endothelial electrical impedance. Confocal microscopy and flow cytometry were used to study cell junction protein expressions. Hcy-induced changes in transcellular transport of HIMECs were estimated by observing formation of functional caveolae defined as caveolae labeled by cholera toxin and antibody against caveolin-1 and one that have taken up FITC-BSA. Hcy instigated HIMEC monolayer permeability through activation of MMP-9. The increased paracellular permeability was associated with degradation of vascular endothelial cadherin and zona occludin-1 and transcellular permeability through increased caveolae formation in HIMECs. Elevation of Hcy content increases permeability of HIMEC layer affecting both paracellular and transcellular transport pathways, and this increased permeability was alleviated by inhibition of MMP-9 activity. These findings contribute to clarification of mechanisms of IBD development.
Junctional protein regulation by sphingosine kinase 2 contributes to blood-brain barrier protection in hypoxic preconditioning-induced cerebral ischemic tolerance.	Protection of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is correlated with improved outcome in stroke. Sphingosine kinase (SphK)-directed production of sphingosine-1-phosphate, which we previously documented as being vital to preconditioning-induced stroke protection, mediates peripheral vascular integrity via junctional protein regulation. We used a hypoxic preconditioning (HPC) model in adult wild-type and SphK2-null mice to examine the isoform-specific role of SphK2 signaling for ischemic tolerance to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion and attendant BBB protection. Reductions in infarct volume and BBB permeability in HPC-treated mice were completely lost in SphK2-null mice. Hypoxic preconditioning-induced attenuation of postischemic BBB disruption in wild types, evidenced by reduced extravascular immunoglobulin G intensity, suggests direct protection of BBB integrity. Measurement of BBB junctional protein status in response to HPC revealed SphK2-dependent increases in triton-insoluble claudin-5 and VE-cadherin, which may serve to strengthen the BBB before stroke. Postischemic loss of VE-cadherin, occludin, and zona occludens-1 in SphK2-null mice with prior HPC suggests that SphK2-dependent protection of these adherens and tight junction proteins is compulsory for HPC to establish a vasculoprotective phenotype. Further elucidation of the mediators of this endogenous, HPC-activated lipid signaling pathway, and their role in protecting the ischemic BBB, may provide new therapeutic targets for cerebrovascular protection in stroke patients.
Respiratory syncytial virus potentiates ABCA3 mutation-induced loss of lung epithelial cell differentiation.	ATP-binding cassette transporter A3 (ABCA3) is a lipid transporter active in lung alveolar epithelial type II cells (ATII) and is essential for their function as surfactant-producing cells. ABCA3 mutational defects cause respiratory distress in newborns and interstitial lung disease (ILD) in children. The molecular pathomechanisms are largely unknown; however, viral infections may initiate or aggravate ILDs. Here, we investigated the impact of the clinically relevant ABCA3 mutations, p.Q215K and p.E292V, by stable transfection of A549 lung epithelial cells. ABCA3 mutations strongly impaired expression of the ATII differentiation marker SP-C and the key epithelial cell adhesion proteins E-cadherin and zonula occludens-1. Concurrently, cells expressing ABCA3 mutation acquired mesenchymal features as observed by increased expression of SNAI1, MMP-2 and TGF-β1, and elevated phosphorylation of Src. Infection with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), the most common viral respiratory pathogen in small children, potentiated the observed mutational effects on loss of epithelial and acquisition of mesenchymal characteristics. In addition, RSV infection of cells harboring ABCA3 mutations resulted in a morphologic shift to a mesenchymal phenotype. We conclude that ABCA3 mutations, potentiated by RSV infection, induce loss of epithelial cell differentiation in ATII. Loss of key epithelial features may disturb the integrity of the alveolar epithelium, thereby comprising its functionality. We suggest the impairment of epithelial function as a mechanism by which ABCA3 mutations cause ILD.
The effect of Rho-associated protein kinase inhibitor on monkey Schlemm's canal endothelial cells.	To investigate the effect of a specific inhibitor of Rho-associated protein kinase, Y-27632, on monkey Schlemm's canal endothelial (SCE) cells.
Long-term cultivation of human corneal endothelial cells by telomerase expression.	The objective of this study was to explore the potential role of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) in extending the proliferative lifespan of human corneal endothelial cells (HCECs) under long-term cultivation. A primary culture was initiated with a pure population of HCECs in DMEM/F12 media containing 10% fetal bovine serum and other various supplements. TERT gene was successfully transfected into normal HCECs. A stable HCECs cell line (TERT-HCECs) that expressed TERT was established. The cells could be subcultured for 36 passages. Within this line of cells, TERT not only extended proliferative lifespan and inhibited apoptosis but also enhanced the cell line remaining the normal characteristics similar to HCECs. There were no significantly differences in the expression of the pump function related proteins voltage dependent anion channel 3 (VDAC3), sodium bicarbonate cotransporter member 4 (SLC4A4), chloride channel protein 3 (CLCN3), Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase α1, and ZO-1 in the cell line TERT-HCECs and primary HCECs. TERT-HCECs formed a monolayer cell sheet, maintained similar cell junction formation and pump function with primary HCECs. Karyotype analysis exhibited normal chromosomal numbers. The soft agar colony assay and tumor formation in nude mice assay showed no malignant alterations in TERT-HCECs. Our findings indicated that we had established a cell line with its similar phenotype and properties to primary HCECs. Further study of the TERT-HCECs may be valuable in studying the function of the cells in vivo.
Targeting Cx43 and N-cadherin, which are abnormally upregulated in venous leg ulcers, influences migration, adhesion and activation of Rho GTPases.	Venous leg ulcers can be very hard to heal and represent a significant medical need with no effective therapeutic treatment currently available.
The effect of genetically modified Lactobacillus plantarum 590 on the gut health of Sprague-Dawley rats.	Lp was a generally recognized as safe microorganism. Lactobacillus plantarum 590 was obtained by inserting nisI gene into Lp genome to help it tolerate higher concentration nisin. As the unintended effects of the genetically modified microorganism (GMM) are the most important barriers to the progress of GMM, we have performed a useful exploration to establish a new in vivo evaluation model for GMM from the point of view of intestinal health. In this study, Sprague-Dawley rats were orally administered with Lp 590 and Lp for 4 weeks. Fecal samples were collected to determine the number of beneficial bacteria Bifidobacterium and harmful bacteria Clostridium perfringens. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to detect the bacterial profiles of every group. Fecal enzyme activities and short-chain fatty acids as main metabolites were also examined. Real time PCR (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry were used to analyze two proteins (ZO-1 and occludin) and secretory immunoglobulin A to detect intestinal permeability and mucosal immunity, gut permeability and gut mucosal immunity were analyzed to see whether GM Lp 590 can induce changes of the gut health when compared with non-GM Lp group, andeventually we concluded that there is no significant difference between GM Lp 590-fed group and non-GM Lp-fed group. The conclusion of gut health test was comparable withthat from traditional subchronic test. Evaluation of intestinal health will be a new approach of assessing the safety of GMM.
Lactobacillus crispatus M206119 exacerbates murine DSS-colitis by interfering with inflammatory responses.	To investigate the role of Lactobacillus crispatus (L. crispatus) strain China Center for Type Culture Collection (CCTCC) M206119 in intestinal inflammation.
Rho GTP exchange factor ARHGEF11 regulates the integrity of epithelial junctions by connecting ZO-1 and RhoA-myosin II signaling.	The organization of the apical junctional complex and its association with the cytoskeleton is essential for the function of epithelial cells. However, knowledge about the signaling pathways that regulate these processes is still fragmentary. Here we found that ARHGEF11, a member of the RGS-RhoGEF family, associates with tight junctions (TJs) by binding to ZO-1, but not to the highly homologous ZO-2, in polarized epithelial cells. In the early phases of cell-cell contact, ARHGEF11 was located at primordial adherens junctions, and then its localization was altered to TJs as epithelial polarity was established, much like ZO-1. Knockdown of ARHGEF11 reduced the phosphorylation of myosin light chain, retarding the assembly of cell-cell junctions and the development of the paracellular barrier. Furthermore, the simultaneous knockdown of ARHGEF11 and ZO-2 resulted in significant impairment of TJs and of the perijunctional actomyosin ring; similar defects arise when both ZO-1 and ZO-2 are depleted. These results suggest that ARHGEF11 mediates RhoA-myosin light chain signaling pathways at cell-cell junctions, functioning in cooperation with ZO-1, to regulate the paracellular barrier and the organization of the apical junctional complex and perijunctional actomyosin ring of epithelial cells.
Tight junctions on the move: molecular mechanisms for epithelial barrier regulation.	Increasing evidence suggests that the tight junction is a dynamically regulated structure. Cytoskeletal reorganization, particularly myosin light chain phosphorylation--induced actomyosin contraction, has increasingly been recognized as a mediator of physiological and pathophysiological tight junction regulation. However, our understanding of molecular mechanisms of tight junction modulation remains limited. Recent studies using live cell and live animal imaging techniques allowed us to peek into the molecular details of tight junction regulation. At resting conditions, the tight junction is maintained by dynamic protein-protein interactions, which may provide a platform for rapid tight junction regulation. Following stimulation, distinct forms of tight junction protein reorganization were observed. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) causes a myosin light chain kinase (MLCK)--mediated barrier regulation by inducing occludin removal from the tight junction through caveolar endocytosis. In contrast, MLCK- and CK2-inhibition--caused tight junction regulation is mediated by altered zonula occludens (ZO)-1 protein dynamics and requires ZO-1--mediated protein-protein interaction, potentially through regulating claudin function. Although some of the molecular details are missing, studies summarized above point to modulating protein localization and dynamics that are common mechanisms for tight junction regulation.
ZO-1 mRNA and protein expression during tight junction assembly in Caco-2 cells.	We previously identified and characterized ZO-1 as a peripheral membrane protein specifically associated with the cytoplasmic surface of tight junctions. Here we describe the identification of partial cDNA sequences encoding rat and human ZO-1 and their use to study the assembly of tight junctions in the Caco-2 human intestinal epithelial cell line. A rat cDNA was isolated from a lambda-gtll expression library by screening with mAbs. Polyclonal antibodies were raised to cDNA-encoded fusion protein; several properties of these antibodies support this cDNA as encoding ZO-1. Expression of ZO-1 mRNA occurs in the rat and Caco-2 cells with a major transcript of approximately 7.5 kb. To disrupt tight junctions and study the subsequent process of assembly, Caco-2 cells were grown in suspension for 48 h in Ca++/Mg++-free spinner medium during which time they lose cell-cell contacts, become round, and by immunofluorescence microscopy show diffuse and speckled localization of ZO-1. Within hours of replating at confluent density in Ca++/Mg++-containing media, attached cells show discrete localization of ZO-1 at cell-cell contacts. Within 2 d, fully confluent monolayers form, and ZO-1 localizes in a continuous gasket-like fashion circumscribing all cells. ZO-1 mRNA levels are highest in cells in spinner culture, and upon replating rapidly fall and plateau at approximately 10% of initial levels after 2-3 wk in culture. ZO-1 protein levels are lowest in contact-free cells and rise five- to eightfold over the same period. In contrast, mRNA levels for sucrase-isomaltase, an apical membrane hydrolase, increase only after a confluent monolayer forms. Thus, in this model of contact-dependent assembly of the tight junction, there is both a rapid assembly beginning upon cell-cell contact, as well as a long-term modulation involving changes in expression of ZO-1 mRNA and protein levels.
Rho protein regulates tight junctions and perijunctional actin organization in polarized epithelia.	The rho family of GTP-binding proteins regulates actin filament organization. In unpolarized mammalian cells, rho proteins regulate the assembly of actin-containing stress fibers at the cell-matrix interface. Polarized epithelial cells, in contrast, are tall and cylindrical with well developed intercellular tight junctions that permit them to behave as biologic barriers. We report that rho regulates filamentous actin organization preferentially in the apical pole of polarized intestinal epithelial cells and, in so doing, influences the organization and permeability of the associated apical tight junctions. Thus, barrier function, which is an essential characteristic of columnar epithelia, is regulated by rho.
Glucocorticoid-induced functional polarity of growth factor responsiveness regulates tight junction dynamics in transformed mammary epithelial tumor cells.	The synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone, induces the "normal-like" differentiated property of tight junction formation and suppresses growth of the Con8 mammary epithelial tumor cell line, derived from a 7,12-dimethylbenz(alpha)anthracene-induced rat mammary adenocarcinoma. Characterization of the transepithelial electrical resistance of Con8 mammary tumor cells cultured on permeable supports revealed that a novel response to dexamethasone is the generation of a polarized cell monolayer with respect to epidermal growth factor receptor responsiveness. Administration of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) to the basolateral, but not the apical, plasma membrane compartment disrupted the glucocorticoid-stimulated tight junction barrier. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that dexamethasone caused the ZO-1 tight junction-associated protein to localize exclusively to the apical border of laterally adjacent membranes of the cell periphery, whereas basolateral administration of TGF-alpha caused the redistribution of ZO-1 back to disorganized aggregates along the cell periphery. In contrast, TGF-alpha was able to exert its mitogenic effects equally on both sides of the cell monolayer independent of its polarized disruption of tight junction formation. Our results represent the first evidence for a functional polarization of the epidermal growth factor receptor and strongly implicate the glucocorticoid-regulated formation of tight junctions in policing the polarized responsiveness of mammary cells to growth factors.
WIF-B cells: an in vitro model for studies of hepatocyte polarity.	We have evaluated the utility of the hepatoma-derived hybrid cell line, WIF-B, for in vitro studies of polarized hepatocyte functions. The majority (> 70%) of cells in confluent culture formed closed spaces with adjacent cells. These bile canalicular-like spaces (BC) accumulated fluorescein, a property of bile canaliculi in vivo. By indirect immunofluorescence, six plasma membrane (PM) proteins showed polarized distributions similar to rat hepatocytes in situ. Four apical PM proteins were concentrated in the BC membrane of WIF-B cells. Microtubules radiated from the BC (apical) membrane, and actin and foci of gamma-tubulin were concentrated in this region. The tight junction-associated protein ZO-1 was present in belts marking the boundary between apical and basolateral PM domains. We explored the functional properties of this boundary in living cells using fluorescent membrane lipid analogs and soluble tracers. When cells were incubated at 4 degrees C with a fluorescent analog of sphingomyelin, only the basolateral PM was labeled. In contrast, when both PM domains were labeled by de novo synthesis of fluorescent sphingomyelin from ceramide, fluorescent lipid could only be removed from the basolateral domain. These data demonstrate the presence of a barrier to the lateral diffusion of lipids between the PM domains. However, small soluble FITC-dextrans (4,400 mol wt) were able to diffuse into BC, while larger FITC-dextrans were restricted to various degrees depending on their size and incubation temperature. At 4 degrees C, the surface labeling reagent sNHS-LC-biotin (557 mol wt) had access to the entire PM, but streptavidin (60,000 mol wt), which binds to biotinylated molecules, was restricted to only the basolateral domain. Such differential accessibility of well-characterized probes can be used to mark each membrane domain separately. These results show that WIF-B cells are a suitable model to study membrane trafficking and targeting in hepatocytes in vitro.
Distribution of the tight junction-associated protein ZO-1 in circumventricular organs of the CNS.	The immunofluorescent distribution of ZO-1, a tight junction-associated protein, was studied in murine circumventricular organs. These regions generally express a less restrictive blood-brain barrier than is found in other areas of the CNS. In the remaining brain parenchyma, where a characteristic blood-brain barrier exists, ZO-1 was localized in discrete, continuous lines along blood vessels, presumably in association with endothelial cell tight junctions. The ependymal cells in the ventricular walls displayed a more punctate pattern of ZO-1 distribution, indicative of discontinuous tight junctions. In two of the circumventricular organs examined, the median eminence and the subfornical organ, many capillaries lacked detectable ZO-1 immunoreactivity while the apical aspects of the specialized ependymal cells (tanycytes) revealed an unbroken ZO-1 distribution. Scant labelling of ZO-1 in blood vessels was found in the area postrema, and only weak and discontinuous ZO-1 labelling was present in the ventricular wall. Capillaries of the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis expressed ZO-1 immunoreactivity which was comparable to the pattern observed in CNS regions with typical blood-brain barrier. The subcommissural organ, known to contain a blood-brain barrier, also displayed continuous ZO-1 staining in blood vessels. Unbroken ZO-1 distribution was observed in the specialized ependymal cells adjacent to both the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis and subcommissural organ. These immunocytochemical data demonstrate a distribution of ZO-1 in CNS parenchyma outside the circumventricular organs that is consistent with an organization of tight junctions which prevent free paracellular exchange of substances between blood and neuropil but which allow for continuity between CSF and the neuronal environment. The ZO-1 staining pattern in blood vessels and ventricular walls of the circumventricular organs is heterogeneous despite the prevalent absence of a functional blood-brain barrier.
Analysis of the distribution and phosphorylation state of ZO-1 in MDCK and nonepithelial cells.	We have examined the distribution and extent of phosphorylation of the tight junction-associated protein ZO-1 in the epithelial MDCK cell line, and in three cell types that do not form tight junctions: S180 (sarcoma) cells, S180 cells transfected with E-cadherin (S180L), and primary cultures of astrocytes. In short-term calcium chelation experiments on MDCK cells, removal of extracellular calcium caused cells to pull apart. However, ZO-1 remained concentrated at the plasma membrane and no change in ZO-1 phosphorylation was observed. Maintenance of MDCK cells in low calcium medium, conditions where no tight junctions are found, resulted in altered ZO-1 distribution and lower total phosphorylation of the protein. In S180 cells, ZO-1 was diffusely distributed along the entire cell surface, with concentration of the antigen in motile regions of the cell. Cell-cell contact was not a prerequisite for ZO-1 localization at the plasma membrane in this cell type, and the phosphate content of ZO-1 was found to be lower in S180 cells relative to MDCK cells. Expression of E-cadherin in S180L cells did not alter either the distribution or phosphorylation of ZO-1. In contrast to S180 cells, ZO-1 in primary cultures of astrocytes was concentrated at sites of cell-cell contact, and the phosphorylation state was the same as that in control MDCK cells. Comparison of one-dimensional proteolytic digests of 32P-labeled ZO-1 revealed the phosphorylation of two peptides in control MDCK cells that was absent in both MDCK cells grown in low calcium and in S180 cells.
Occludin: a novel integral membrane protein localizing at tight junctions.	Recently, we found that ZO-1, a tight junction-associated protein, was concentrated in the so called isolated adherens junction fraction from the liver (Itoh, M., A. Nagafuchi, S. Yonemura, T. Kitani-Yasuda, Sa. Tsukita, and Sh. Tsukita. 1993. J. Cell Biol. 121:491-502). Using this fraction derived from chick liver as an antigen, we obtained three monoclonal antibodies specific for a approximately 65-kD protein in rats. This antigen was not extractable from plasma membranes without detergent, suggesting that it is an integral membrane protein. Immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy with these mAbs showed that this approximately 65-kD membrane protein was exclusively localized at tight junctions of both epithelial and endothelial cells: at the electron microscopic level, the labels were detected directly over the points of membrane contact in tight junctions. To further clarify the nature and structure of this membrane protein, we cloned and sequenced its cDNA. We found that the cDNA encoded a 504-amino acid polypeptide with 55.9 kDa. A search of the data base identified no proteins with significant homology to this membrane protein. A most striking feature of its primary structure was revealed by a hydrophilicity plot: four putative membrane-spanning segments were included in the NH2-terminal half. This hydrophilicity plot was very similar to that of connexin, an integral membrane protein in gap junctions. These findings revealed that an integral membrane protein localizing at tight junctions is now identified, which we designated as "occludin."
Immunocytochemistry of perinatal rat livers with a special reference to the roles of mesenchymal cells in hepatic differentiation.	To investigate the roles of extracellular matrix produced by hepatic mesenchymal cells in the organization of hepatic cell cords, perinatal rat livers were examined with immunocytochemistry of fibronectin (FN) and laminin (LM). Some hepatocytes in a free state at prenatal day 15 actively produced FN and LM in the rough endoplasmic reticulum but lost this synthetic activity when such cells were incorporated into hepatic cell cords. On the other hand, hepatic mesenchymal cells, especially those associated with the perisinusoidal space, retained this synthetic activity throughout the stages examined. In the differentiating hepatic cell cords, positive immunoreactions for FN and LM were preferentially seen on the cell surface facing both sinusoidal space and differentiating bile canaliculus concomitant with the expression of the tight junction protein, ZO-1, from prenatal day 17. Since such hepatocytes have lost or reduced their synthetic activities of both glycoproteins in the rER, the immunoreactions appear to be mainly due to hepatic mesenchymal cells which seem to play a role in the formation of the hepatic cell cords and the bile canaliculi.
Myofibroblast transformation of cat corneal endothelium by transforming growth factor-beta1, -beta2, and -beta3.	Under certain pathophysiologic conditions, the corneal endothelium can produce an abnormal posterior collagenous layer (PCL) that reduces light transmission. Previous studies suggest that formation of PCLs can result from transformation of endothelial cells to a proliferative myofibroblast phenotype. The purpose of this study was to determine the potential role of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta on corneal endothelial transformation.
Expression of cathepsin S antisense transcripts by adenovirus in retinal pigment epithelial cells.	To show the production of sense or antisense transcripts by recombinant adenoviruses, to investigate whether the transcripts produced were suitable for downregulating the expression of the targeted gene, cathepsin S (CatS), and to examine the effect of antisense transcript production on the biologic function of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, including the regulation of endogenous aspartic protease expression.
Absorption enhancement, structural changes in tight junctions and cytotoxicity caused by palmitoyl carnitine in Caco-2 and IEC-18 cells.	Palmitoyl carnitine chloride (PCC) has been shown to be an effective enhancer of intestinal transport of hydrophilic molecules. The exact mechanism by which the epithelial barrier function is decreased is not clear. In an attempt to elucidate the mechanism of action of PCC, we studied the relationship among absorption enhancement, cell viability and tight junction protein localization in the human colonic Caco-2 cell line and the rat small intestinal cell line IEC-18. Filter-grown cells were exposed to 0 to 1 mM PCC for 30 min, and the efficacy of PCC treatment was determined by assessing the transepithelial electrical resistance and the apparent permeability for mannitol and PEG-4000. Membrane lysis and cytotoxicity were assessed by measurement of lactate dehydrogenase leakage and uptake of propidium iodide and neutral red. The immunolocalization of the tight junctional protein ZO-1 was quantified using CSLM and image-processing software. In both cell lines, PCC caused a dose-dependent decrease in transepithelial electrical resistance and a concomitant increase in the permeability for mannitol and PEG-4000. The transport enhancement was accompanied by an increase in apical membrane permeability and a reduction in cell viability. At higher PCC concentrations (>/=0.4 mM), the distribution of the tight junctional protein ZO-1 was changed and cells were unable to recover viability. PCC is effective as an absorption enhancer for hydrophilic macromolecules. However, lytic effects on the cell membrane and reduced cell viability were concomitant with transport enhancement.
Protein-binding domains of the tight junction protein, ZO-2, are highly conserved between avian and mammalian species.	The tight junction is composed of many proteins and includes three members of the MAGUK (membrane-associated, guanylate kinase-like) protein family: ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3. ZO-2 was cloned and sequenced from embryonic chicken retina. Antibodies against a short ZO-2 peptide immunolabeled the outer limiting membrane (an adherens junction of the neural retina) and the apical junctional complexes of the retinal pigment epithelium. Each ZO family member contains a homologous series of protein-binding domains: three distinct PDZ domains and src homology 3 (SH3), guanylate kinase-like (GuK), and acidic domains. Compared with human and canine ZO-2s, the PDZ and SH3 domains are the most conserved (90-95% amino acid sequence identity). These domains are only 50-71% identical with the homologous domains of ZO-1 and ZO-3. Although the sequence is less conserved for regions that link the protein-binding domains, the length of those regions is conserved in ZO-2s. The postacidic (C-terminal) region is the least conserved. The evolutionary pressure to maintain the sequence of the protein-binding domains suggests that homologous domains have different functions in ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3.
Loss of the tight junction MAGUK ZO-1 in breast cancer: relationship to glandular differentiation and loss of heterozygosity.	Membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologs (MAGUKs) may play a role in cellular functions preventing tumorigenesis as indicated by the neoplastic phenotype caused by genetic loss of the MAGUK Dlg in Drosophila. To test this possibility, we examined the expression and subcellular localization of the tight junction MAGUK ZO-1, as well as the cell adhesion molecule E-cadherin, in paraffin-embedded breast cancer samples, using immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy. As expected, normal tissue showed intense staining for ZO-1 at the position of the epithelial tight junctions, but this staining was reduced or lost in 69% of breast cancers analyzed (n = 48). In infiltrating ductal carcinomas (n = 38) there was a reduction in staining in 42% of well differentiated, in 83% of moderately differentiated and 93% of poorly differentiated tumors. ZO-1 staining was positively correlated with tumor differentiation (P = .011) and more specifically with the glandular differentiation of tumors (P = .0019). Reduction in ZO-1 staining was strongly correlated with reduced E-cadherin staining (P = 4.9 x 10(-5)). The results suggest that down-regulation of ZO-1 expression and its failure to accumulate at cell junctions may be causally related to cancer progression. To detect loss of heterozygosity, the ZO-1 gene tjp-1 was mapped relative to other markers in 15q13 and polymorphic markers flanking tjp-1 were identified. The marker D15S1019 showed loss of heterozygosity in 23% of informative tumors (n = 13). Loss of a tjp-1-linked marker suggests that genetic loss may, in some cases, be responsible for the reduction in ZO-1 expression in breast cancer.
Mitotic inhibition of corneal endothelium in neonatal rats.	Corneal endothelium in humans does not divide to any significant extent after birth; therefore, with age there is a gradual loss of cells. When cell density is reduced to a critical level, the endothelium cannot function to maintain corneal clarity, and the cornea becomes permanently cloudy. Currently, the blindness that results can be treated only by corneal transplantation. The long-term goal is to find methods to stimulate corneal endothelial proliferation in a clinically relevant manner. The first step toward achieving this goal is to identify mechanisms responsible for the induction and maintenance of mitotic inhibition of the corneal endothelium in vivo. During corneal development, the endothelium is formed by migration and proliferation of mesenchymal cells from the ocular periphery. Soon after the monolayer is formed, proliferation ceases. In tissue culture, many cell types cease proliferating upon formation of stable cell-cell and cell-substrate attachments. The goal of the present studies was to determine whether establishment of stable contacts correlates with cessation of endothelial proliferation during corneal development in vivo.
Direct binding between two PDZ domain proteins Canoe and ZO-1 and their roles in regulation of the jun N-terminal kinase pathway in Drosophila morphogenesis.	During Drosophila embryogenesis, the ventral epidermis dorsally expands and the left and right epithelial sheets meet and fuse along the dorsal midline. For this dorsal closure to occur, two PDZ domain proteins, Cno and ZO-1, are required. The dorsal epidermis remains open when the expression of ZO-1 and Cno are reduced simultaneously by hypomorphic mutations in the relevant loci. ZO-1 and Cno colocalize at adherens junctions in embryonic epithelia, and form a protein complex upon binding to each other. Genetic analysis showed that Cno is involved in the Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway for dorsal closure, as a modulator acting upstream of, or in parallel with, the small GTPase Drac1. The ZO-1-Cno complex may be involved in dynamic changes in cytoskeletal organization and cell adhesion during morphogenetic events associated with dorsal closure in the Drosophila embryo.
Retinal pigment epithelium cell culture on thin biodegradable poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) films.	Thin films of 50:50 and 75:25 poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) were manufactured with a controlled thickness of less than 10 microm. The effect of PLGA copolymer ratio on in vitro cell attachment, proliferation, morphology, and tight junction formation was evaluated using a human D407 retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cell line. Almost complete cell attachment was achieved on both PLGA films after 8 h of cell seeding, which was comparable to that on tissue culture polystyrene (TCPS) controls. The initial cell seeding density affected attachment, and the optimal value for 50:50 PLGA was 25000 cells cm(-2). After 7 days of in vitro culture, cell density on 50:50 and 75:25 PLGA films increased 45 and 40 folds, respectively, and a 34-fold increase was observed on TCPS. The RPE cells cultured on PLGA films at confluence had a characteristic cobblestone morphology. Confluent RPE cells also developed normal tight junctions in vitro which were concentrated mainly at the apical surfaces of cell-cell junctions. These results demonstrated that thin biodegradable PLGA films can provide suitable substrates for human RPE cell culture, and may serve as temporary carriers for subretinal implantation of organized sheets of RPE.
Colocalization of tight junction proteins, occludin and ZO-1, and glucose transporter GLUT1 in cells of the blood-ocular barrier in the mouse eye.	The facilitative glucose transporter GLUT1 is abundant in cells of the blood-ocular barrier and serves as a glucose transport mechanism in the barrier. To see the relationship between the glucose transfer function and junctional proteins in the barrier, we examined the localization of GLUT1 and the tight junction proteins, occludin and ZO-1, in the mouse eye. Their localization in the retina, ciliary body, and iris was visualized by double-immunofluorescence microscopy and immunogold electron microscopy. Occludin and ZO-1 were colocalized at tight junctions of the cells of the barrier: retinal pigment epithelial cells, non-pigmented epithelial cells of the ciliary body, and endothelial cells of GLUT1-positive blood vessels. Occludin was restricted to these cells of the barrier. ZO-1 was found, in addition, in sites not functioning as a barrier: the outer limiting membrane in the retina, in the cell border between pigmented and non-pigmented epithelial cells in the ciliary body, and GLUT1-negative blood vessels. These observations show that localization of occludin is restricted to tight junctions of cells of the barrier, whereas ZO-1 is more widely distributed.
