A new minimally invasive posterior approach for the treatment of cervical radiculopathy and myelopathy: surgical technique and preliminary results.	Degenerative cervical disorders predominantly lead to anterior spinal cord compression (by bony spurs at the posterior margin of the vertebral body or by degenerated disc), which may be central and/or foraminal. In a smaller percentage of cases, there is encroachment of the canal mainly from posterior by bulging yellow ligaments or bony appositions, resulting in compression syndromes of roots or spinal cord. The aim of this work is to present a minimally invasive posterior approach avoiding detachment of muscles for the treatment of cervical radiculopathy and myelopathy. Thirteen patients suffering from cervical radiculopathy (four patients) or myelopathy (nine patients) were operated according to this technique. In principle, the technique secures access to the diseased spinal segment via a percutaneously placed working channel (11 mm outer diameter and 9 mm inner diameter). The cervical paraspinal muscles are not deflected, but just spread between their fibres by special dilators. All further steps are performed through this channel under control of three-dimensional vision through the operating microscope. The mean follow-up period was 17 months (one patient died 9 months postoperatively), and patients were evaluated using a modified version of the Oswestry Index, called the Neck Disability Index (NDI), and the visual analogue scale (VAS) for neck and arm pain. The mean NDI (P<0.0001) improved from 13.2 (preoperatively) to 4.8 (postoperatively). The VAS for arm pain (P<0.001) and for neck pain (P<0.001) also showed marked postoperative improvement. Complete recovery of the preoperative neurological deficit was found in four patients, while the remaining eight patients showed improvement of the neurological symptoms during the follow-up period. There were no intra-operative or postoperative complications and no re-operation. The preliminary experience with this technique, and the good clinical outcome, seem to promise that this minimally invasive technique is a valid alternative to the conventional open exposure for treatment of lateral disc prolapses, foraminal bony stenosis and central posterior ligamentous stenosis of the cervical spine.
Which portion in a facet is specifically affected by articular cartilage degeneration with aging in the human lumbar zygapophysial joint?	Using 10 osteoligamentous vertebral columns obtained from elderly donated cadavers, we describe in detail degenerative changes of the articular cartilage in lumbar zygapophysial joints to show which portion in a facet is specifically affected. Degenerative changes, including extended cartilage defects, occurred in multiple facets of every specimen. The results demonstrated 5 basic morphologies of degeneration, i.e., 1) marginal dominace in the articular surface, 2) lower segment dominance except for the lowest (L5/S) facet, 3) advancement in the inferior articular process, 4) cranial and caudal dominance rather than the dorsal dominance in the articular surface and 5) progress in a mirror-image manner. These rules seemed to be consistent with differences in size, shape and kinesiological aspects of the facet between segments and between portions in a facet.
Myelopathic presentation of cervical juxtafacet cyst: a case report.	Case report.
A case report of severe kyphoscoliosis and autofusion of the posterior elements in two siblings with central core disease.	A case report of two siblings (ages 14 and 17 years) with central core disease and prior malignant hyperthermia successfully treated with spinal fusion surgery for severe kyphoscoliosis.
Defining pseudoarthrosis in the cervical spine with differing motion thresholds.	Calculate the apparent pseudarthrosis rate for anteriorly plated cervical spine fusions using different threshold levels of intervertebral rotation.
CT evaluation of the pattern of odontoid fractures in the elderly--relationship to upper cervical spine osteoarthritis.	Odontoid fractures are common in the elderly following minor falls. Almost all of them have osteoarthritis of the cervical spine below the axis vertebra. As a result, there is increased stress on the spared upper cervical spine, resulting in a higher incidence of injuries. As movement in the upper cervical spine involves participation of five joints, degeneration in any one particular joint may affect the biomechanics of loading of the upper cervical spine. We aimed to analyse the relationship of odontoid fractures to the pattern of upper cervical spine osteoarthritis in the elderly. We studied the CT-scan images of the cervical spine in 23 patients who were over the age of 70 years and had odontoid fractures. In each patient, the type of odontoid fracture and the characteristics of the degenerative changes in each joint were analysed. Twenty-one of 23 patients had Type-II odontoid fractures. The incidence of significant atlanto-odontoid degeneration in these individuals was very high (90.48%), with relative sparing of the lateral atlantoaxial joints. Osteoporosis was found in 13 of 23 patients at the dens-body junction and in seven of 23 patients at the odontoid process and body of the axis. With ageing, progressively more severe degenerative changes develop in the atlanto-odontoid joint. These eventually obliterate the joint space and fix the odontoid to the anterior arch of the atlas. In contrast, the lateral atlantoaxial joints are hardly affected by osteoarthritis. Thus, ultimately, atlantoaxial movements including atlantoaxial rotation are markedly limited by osteoarthritis of the atlanto-odontoid joint. However, there is still potential for movement in the lateral atlantoaxial joints, as they remain relatively free of degenerative change. The vulnerability of the atlantoaxial segment is further increased by markedly limited rotation below the axis vertebra due to severe facet-joint degeneration. As a consequence, a relatively low-energy trauma to the lateral part of the face, for instance by a fall, will induce forced atlantoaxial rotation. This, with the marked limitation of movement at the atlanto-odontoid joint, will produce a torque force at the base of the odontoid process leading to a Type II fracture.
Lumbar juxta-facet cyst after trauma.	We report a post-traumatic lumbar facet cyst in which results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed at the time of injury were available. The patient was a 59-year-old man who presented with severe low back and right leg pain immediately after injury of his sacroiliac region in a traffic accident. MRI at the time of injury revealed high intensity signal change in the right facet joint at L4/5. Re-examination 5 months after the injury with MRI revealed a cyst, which was continuous with the facet joint. Surgical resection of the cyst yielded satisfactory results. We describe detailed MRI findings for this case and review the literature on traumatic juxta-facet cyst in the lumbar spine.
Transpedicular decancellation osteotomy in the treatment of posttuberculous kyphosis.	Although the transpedicular decancellation osteotomy is a salvage technique for reconstruction of complex spinal deformities, it is not a procedure used exclusively for patients with kyphosis occurring as a sequel of treated tuberculosis. In this study, 16 adult patients with kyphosis underwent transpedicular decancellation osteotomy between 1993 and 1999. Pain, kyphosis angle, sagittal balance, and functional and neurologic status were the main parameters used for the clinical and radiologic assessment.
MR findings of exaggerated fluid in facet joints predicts instability.	Retrospective radiographic review.
Anterior cervical microforaminotomy for cervical radiculopathy--results and review.	Analysis of anterior cervical microforaminotomy performed at the North Staffordshire University Hospital along with a review of literature of this minimally invasive procedure is presented.
Does an interspinous device (Coflex) improve the outcome of decompressive surgery in lumbar spinal stenosis? One-year follow up of a prospective case control study of 60 patients.	A number of interspinous process devices have recently been introduced to the lumbar spinal market as an alternative to conventional surgical procedures in the treatment of symptomatic lumbar stenosis. One of those "dynamic" devices is the Coflex device which has been already implanted worldwide more than 14,000 times. The aim of implanting this interspinous device is to unload the facet joints, restore foraminal height and provide stability in order to improve the clinical outcome of surgery. Published information is limited, and there are so far no data of comparison between the implant and traditional surgical approaches such as laminotomy. The purpose of our prospective study is to evaluate the surgical outcome of decompressive surgery in comparison to decompressive surgery and additional implantation of the Coflex interspinous Device. 60 patients who were all treated in the Spine Center of Klinikum Neustadt, Germany for a one or two level symptomatic LSS with decompressive surgery were included. Two groups were built. In Group one (UD) we treated 30 patients with decompression surgery alone and group two (CO) in 30 patients a Coflex device was additional implanted. Pre- and postoperatively disability and pain scores were measured using the Oswestry disability index (ODI), the Roland-Morris score (RMS), the visual analogue scale (VAS) and the pain-free walking distance (WD). Patients underwent postoperative assessments 3, 6 and 12 month including the above-mentioned scores as well as patient satisfaction. In both groups we could see a significant improve (p < 0.001) in the clinical outcome assessed in the ODI, in the RMS for evaluation of back pain, in the VAS and in the pain-free WD at all times of reinvestigation compared to base line. At 1-year follow up there were no statistically differences between both groups in all ascertained parameters including patient satisfaction and subjective operation decision. Because there is no current evidence of the efficacy of the Coflex device we need further data from randomized controlled studies for defining the indications for theses procedures. To the best of our knowledge this is the first prospective controlled study which compares surgical decompression of lumbar spinal stenosis with additional implanting of an interspinous Coflex device in the treatment of symptomatic LSS.
The association of spinal osteoarthritis with lumbar lordosis.	Careful review of published evidence has led to the postulate that the degree of lumbar lordosis may possibly influence the development and progression of spinal osteoarthritis, just as misalignment does in other joints. Spinal degeneration can ensue from the asymmetrical distribution of loads. The resultant lesions lead to a domino- like breakdown of the normal morphology, degenerative instability and deviation from the correct configuration. The aim of this study is to investigate whether a relationship exists between the sagittal alignment of the lumbar spine, as it is expressed by lordosis, and the presence of radiographic osteoarthritis.
Lumbar facet joint motion in patients with degenerative disc disease at affected and adjacent levels: an in vivo biomechanical study.	Controlled laboratory study.
Rat model of lumbar facet joint osteoarthritis associated with facet-mediated mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intra-articular injection of monosodium iodoacetate.	The relationship between lumbar facet joint (LFJ) osteoarthritis (OA) and back pain remains unclear. An OA model associated with joint pain was successfully induced by monosodium iodoacetate (MIA) in rat knees. We aimed to establish an experimental OA model with facet-mediated mechanical hyperalgesia in the LFJ in rats.
Adjacent level degeneration and facet arthropathy after disc prosthesis surgery or rehabilitation in patients with chronic low back pain and degenerative disc: second report of a randomized study.	Randomized clinical trial with 2-year follow-up.
The significance of facet joint cross-sectional area on magnetic resonance imaging in relationship to cervical degenerative spondylolisthesis.	Characteristic changes of the facet joints, including synovial cysts, facet joint hypertrophy, and facet joint effusions, on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography have been associated with lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. The cervical facets have not been examined for associations with cervical degenerative spondylolisthesis similar to those seen in the lumbar spine.
Kinematic magnetic resonance imaging to define the cervical facet joint space for the spine in neutral and torsion.	Prospectively acquire magnetic resonance images of the neck in normal subjects and patients with radiculopathy to measure and compare measures of the facet joint space thickness and volume.
