Role of interleukin-6 in a non-septic shock model induced by zymosan.	In the present study, we used IL-6 knock-out mice (IL-6KO) to evaluate a possible role of IL-6 in the pathogenesis of non-septic shock induced by peritoneal injection of zymosan. A severe inflammatory response characterized by peritoneal exudation, high peritoneal levels of nitrate/nitrite, and leukocyte infiltration into peritoneal exudate was induced by zymosan administration in wild-type control (WT) mice. This inflammatory process coincided with the damage to the lung and small intestine, as assessed by histological examination. Lung, small intestine and liver myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, indicative of neutrophil infiltration and lipid peroxidation, were significantly increased in zymosan-treated WT mice. Peritoneal administration of zymosan in the WT mice also induced a significant increase in the plasma levels of nitrite/nitrate and in the levels of peroxynitrite, 18 hours after zymosan challenge. Immunohistochemical examination demonstrated a marked increase in the immunoreactivity to nitrotyrosine in the lung of zymosan-treated WT mice. Zymosan-treated IL-6KO showed significantly decreased mortality and inhibition of the development of peritonitis. In addition, IL-6KO mice showed significant protection from the development of organ failure, since tissue injury and MPO was reduced in the lung, small intestine and liver. Furthermore, a significant reduction of suppression of mitochondrial respiration, DNA strand breakage and reduction of cellular levels of NAD+ was observed in ex vivo macrophages harvested from the peritoneal cavity of IL-6KO mice subjected to zymosan-induced non-septic shock. In vivo treatment with anti-IL-6 (5,000 ng/day per mouse, 24 and 1 hour before zymosan administration) significantly reduced the inflammatory process. Taken together, the present study clearly demonstrates that IL-6 exerts a role in zymosan-induced non-septic shock.
A small dose of intraperitoneal injection of zymosan induces systemic inflammatory response and multiple organ dysfunction following gut ischemia-reperfusion injury]	To investigate the effects of a small dose of intraperitoneal injection of zymosan following gut ischemia-reperfusion injury on systemic inflammatory response and distant organ function.
Contact activation and down regulation of neutrophils by cellulose wound dressings can be prevented by radical scavengers.	Neutrophil interaction with wound dressing materials was studied. A meshed non-woven cellulose was chosen as model dressing. Neutrophils isolated from human blood was added to the cellulose, and the production of reactive oxygen species was measured by luminol-amplified chemiluminescence. The respiratory burst response of the neutrophils was found to be activated upon contact with cellulose. The contact activation of the cells increased when the cellulose was oxidised with periodate, and decreased when the cellulose was reduced with cyanoborohydride, indicating that the activation of the respiratory burst response was due to carbonyl-induced stress. The contact activation of the respiratory burst response resulted in an inability of the neutrophils to respond to a secondary stimulation with zymosan. When radical scavenger enzymes were covalently bound to the cellulose, the contact activation was decreased and the ability to respond to stimuli was increased. Addition of the molecular scavenger glutathione (GSH) did not decrease the cell activation upon cellulose contact, but the cell showed an intact ability to respond to secondary stimuli after cellulose contact. In conclusion, the results show that the environmental redox potential effects neutrophils in a situations of clinical interest and that the addition of radical scavengers protects the neutrophils against material-induced damage resulting in preserved cell function.
Skeletal Muscle wasting and contractile performance in septic rats.	We investigated the temporal effects of sepsis on muscle wasting and function in order to study the contribution of wasting to the decline in muscle function; we also studied the fiber-type specificity of this muscle wasting. Sepsis was induced by injecting rats intraperitoneally with a zymosan suspension. At 2 h and at 2, 6, and 11 days after injection, muscle function was measured using in situ electrical stimulation, Zymosan injection induced severe muscle wasting compared to pair-fed and ad libitum fed controls. At 6 days, isometric force-generating capacity was drastically reduced in zymosan-treated rats. We conclude that this was fully accounted fo by the reduction of muscle mas. At day 6, we also observed increased activity of the 20S proteasome in gastrocnemius but not soleus muscle from septic rats. In tibialis anterior but not in soleus, muscle wasting occurred in a fiber-type specific fashion, i.e., the reduction in cross-sectional area was significantly smaller in type 1 than type 2A and 2B/X fibers. These findings suggest that both the inherent function of a muscle and the muscle fiber-type distribution affect the responsiveness to catabolic signals.
Mast cell-expressed complement receptor, not TLR2, is the main detector of zymosan in peritonitis.	The in vitro macrophage response to zymosan has been attributed to Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Whether TLR2 is obligatory for the zymosan-induced in vivo response has not been assessed. The importance of this question is underscored by the fact that zymosan activates complement in a cell-independent manner. We have investigated whether the in vitro observation of TLR2 as the dominant zymosan receptor on macrophages would translate to an experimental peritonitis model in vivo. We have treated mice with zymosan, resulting in significant leukocyte (primarily neutrophil) accumulation in the peritoneum at 4 h. Zymosan-mediated leukocyte recruitment was TLR2 independent, but was predominantly dependent on the complement components, C3 and C5a with a minor contribution from LTB4. Peritoneal neutrophilia was 50% mast cell dependent and this defect was reproduced using C5a receptor (C5aR)-deficient mast cells in mast cell-deficient mice, suggesting that C5aR is responsible for mast cell activation following zymosan challenge. By 24 h, the response to zymosan involved primarily monocyte recruitment and was C3 and C5aR independent. Taken together, these studies indicate that the in vivo inflammatory response to zymosan does not necessarily mimic the TLR2 dependence observed in vitro, and that complement plays a dominant role in early, but not late, zymosan-mediated peritonitis.
N-glycosylation deficiency reduces ICAM-1 induction and impairs inflammatory response.	Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) result from mutations in various N-glycosylation genes. The most common type, phosphomannomutase-2 (PMM2)-CDG (CDG-Ia), is due to deficient PMM2 (Man-6-P → Man-1-P). Many patients die from recurrent infections, but the mechanism is unknown. We found that glycosylation-deficient patient fibroblasts have less intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and because of its role in innate immune response, we hypothesized that its reduction might help explain recurrent infections in CDG patients. We, therefore, studied mice with mutations in Mpi encoding phosphomannose isomerase (Fru-6-P → Man-6-P), the cause of human MPI-CDG. We challenged MPI-deficient mice with an intraperitoneal injection of zymosan to induce an inflammatory response and found decreased neutrophil extravasation compared with control mice. Immunohistochemistry of mesenteries showed attenuated neutrophil egress, presumably due to poor ICAM-1 response to acute peritonitis. Since phosphomannose isomerase (MPI)-CDG patients and their cells improve glycosylation when given mannose, we provided MPI-deficient mice with mannose-supplemented water for 7 days. This restored ICAM-1 expression on mesenteric endothelial cells and enhanced transendothelial migration of neutrophils during acute inflammation. Attenuated inflammatory response in glycosylation-deficient mice may result from a failure to increase ICAM-1 on the vascular endothelial surface and may help explain recurrent infections in patients.
Early diagnosis of adult respiratory distress syndrome: an experimental model of complement-mediated pulmonary injury.	This article presents an experimental model of pulmonary injury resembling subclinical human adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) mediated by leukocytes. The activation of complement was prolonged by an intraperitoneal injection of a suspension of zymosan in paraffin. The first step in the development of the disease was an accumulation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the lungs. No significant changes were observed on chest radiographs or computed tomograms and the pathophysiologic changes were only minimal in spite of the characteristic structural changes. The criteria currently used for the diagnosis of ARDS are not sensitive enough to detect the subclinical phase of the disease.
Resistance to experimental peritonitis induced by local nonspecific stimulation of the reticuloendothelial system.	Zymosan, a yeast cell wall preparation from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, stimulates the reticuloendothelial system (RES) in animals. Pretreatment with zymosan induces resistance to several types of shock. We have shown evidence that zymosan given intraperitoneally (IP) induces greater protection than intravenous (IV) zymosan against E coli peritonitis in the rat. Moreover, IP zymosan has few systemic RES effects, which are commonly associated with IV zymosan. IV and IP zymosan stimulation were compared for effectiveness against experimental fibrinopurulent peritonitis in dogs (a peritonitis model quite similar to clinical peritonitis). Ten dogs received zymosan IV (10 mg/kg), ten dogs received zymosan IP (10 mg/kg), and eight dogs received an equal volume of saline IP on three consecutive days. On day 4, a 7.5 cm length of terminal ileum was isolated and its blood supply ligated to create an infarcted, blind loop of bowel. This loop was left in the peritoneal cavity for five days. Five-day survival was 80% (8/10) for the zymosan IP (P less than 0.05), 60% (6/10) for the zymosan IV and 12.5% (1/8) for the saline controls. All survivors were sacrificed at five days and found to have an intact enteric anastomosis with varying degrees of walled-off abscess at the site of the necrotic loop. Histologic evaluation of intraabdominal organs, peritoneum, and abscess wall was carried out. The IP zymosan had no significant systemic RES effects, whereas the IV zymosan produced a marked increase in liver and spleen weights. These findings reinforce the hypothesis that local nonspecific RES stimulation could have a major role in the preparation of certain high-risk patients for abdominal surgery where the chance of peritoneal soilage is high.
